<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s06tys.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f5a0beef-2bad-2682-57fc-f29b16098f67" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are righteous, O LORD, even when I bring my case before you. Yet I wish to discuss your ways of justice with you: Why do the wicked prosper? Why do those who act so deceitfully live in ease and contentment?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have planted them, and indeed, they have taken root; they grow and even produce fruit. You are close to their lips, but far from their hearts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you, O LORD, know me completely; you have observed me and tested the sincerity of my heart toward you. Tear them away like sheep destined for slaughter, and set them apart for the day of destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019254"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How long will the land lie in mourning, and the plants of every field wither away, all because of the wickedness of those who live there? The animals and the birds are dying out, for the people have said, "God will not see what becomes of us in the end."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019255"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you have grown weary running alongside footmen, how will you compete against horses? And if you falter in a land of peace, where you felt secure, how will you manage in the raging torrents of the Jordan?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019256"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even your own brothers and the members of your father’s household have betrayed you; they have gathered a crowd against you. Do not trust them, even if they speak kindly to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019257"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have abandoned my house, I have left my inheritance; I have handed over the one I deeply love into the power of her enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019258"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My inheritance has become like a lion in the forest to me; it roars against me, and so I have come to despise it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019259"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My inheritance has become to me like a brightly colored bird, surrounded by other birds that are hostile to her. Come, gather all the wild animals of the field; come and devour her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019260"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many shepherds have ruined my vineyard; they have trampled my chosen plot underfoot, turning my delightful inheritance into a barren wasteland.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019261"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have turned it into a wasteland, and now, in its desolation, it grieves before me. The entire land lies in ruin, for no one takes it to heart or cares about its condition.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019262"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Invaders have swept across every high place in the wilderness, for the sword of the LORD will consume everything from one end of the land to the other. No one will find peace or security.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019263"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have planted wheat, but will harvest thorns; they have labored hard, but will gain nothing. They will be disgraced by their harvests because of the burning anger of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019264"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says concerning all my wicked neighbors who encroach upon the inheritance I have given to my people Israel to possess: Listen carefully, I will uproot them from their land, and I will also remove the house of Judah from among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019265"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: After I have uprooted them, I will return and show them compassion. I will bring them back, each person to their inheritance and each one to their land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019266"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen that if they diligently learn the ways of my people, pledging loyalty in my name by saying, 'As surely as the LORD lives,' just as they once taught my people to swear by Baal, then they will be established and thrive among my people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019267"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if they refuse to obey, I will completely uproot and destroy that nation, declares the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>