<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s078sk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:aec4fe39-9030-4789-ca17-74ded9c45257" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to Aaron and tell him: When you set up the lamps, the seven lamps must shine their light toward the front of the lampstand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron did as he was instructed; he set up the lamps so that they shone toward the front of the lampstand, just as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The lampstand was crafted entirely of hammered gold, from its base to its decorative flowers. It was made entirely by hammering, following the exact design that the LORD had shown to Moses. Thus, he constructed the lampstand according to the pattern revealed to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Select the Levites from among the Israelites and purify them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here is how you should perform the ritual to purify them: Sprinkle the water of cleansing over them, have them shave their entire bodies, and have them wash their clothes. In this way, they will make themselves clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they shall bring a young bull along with its grain offering, consisting of fine flour mixed with oil, and you shall also take another young bull as a sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall bring the Levites before the tent of meeting, and you shall assemble the entire community of the Israelites together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present the Levites before the LORD, and the Israelites shall lay their hands on the Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron shall present the Levites before the Lord as an offering from the people of Israel, so that they may be set apart to carry out the work of the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites shall place their hands on the heads of the bulls. Then you shall offer one bull as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering to the LORD, to make atonement for the Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present the Levites before Aaron and his sons, and dedicate them as an offering to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall set apart the Levites from the rest of the Israelites, and the Levites will belong to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, the Levites shall enter to perform their duties in the service of the tent of meeting. You shall purify them and present them as an offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they are entirely dedicated to me from among the Israelites; I have taken them for myself in place of all the firstborn, those who open the womb among the Israelites. They are mine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every firstborn among the Israelites belongs to me, whether human or animal. On the day I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I set them apart as holy for myself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have chosen the Levites to take the place of all the firstborn sons among the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have appointed the Levites as a gift to Aaron and his sons from among the Israelites. They are to perform the duties of the Israelites in the tent of meeting and to make atonement on behalf of the Israelites, so that no plague will come upon them when they approach the sanctuary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses, Aaron, and the entire assembly of the Israelites carried out everything the LORD had commanded Moses concerning the Levites. The Israelites did for the Levites exactly as the LORD had instructed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites underwent purification and washed their garments. Then Aaron presented them as an offering before the LORD, and he made atonement for them to cleanse them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, the Levites entered to perform their duties in the tent of meeting in the presence of Aaron and his sons. They carried out their service just as the LORD had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, fulfilling all that was required of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what pertains to the Levites: from the age of twenty-five and upward, they shall enter to perform the duties of service in the tabernacle of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when they reach the age of fifty, they shall retire from their duties in the service and no longer continue to work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they shall assist their fellow Levites in the duties of the tent of meeting, ensuring that the responsibilities are carried out, but they themselves shall not perform the primary service. This is how you are to assign the duties of the Levites concerning their responsibilities.</span></p>






</body></html>