<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s0dwqk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f390d227-c713-58b4-fd1b-3eb602b925f1" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the account of the territories that the people of Israel received as their inheritance in the land of Canaan. Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the leaders of the ancestral families of the tribes of Israel assigned these portions to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their inheritance was determined by lot, as the LORD had commanded through Moses, for the nine tribes and the half-tribe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses had allotted the inheritance of two and a half tribes on the eastern side of the Jordan River, but to the Levites he gave no inheritance among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Joseph were divided into two tribes: Manasseh and Ephraim. As a result, they did not allocate any portion of the land to the Levites, except for certain cities to live in, along with the surrounding pasturelands for their livestock and their possessions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the LORD had instructed Moses, the Israelites carried out the task and apportioned the land accordingly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the people of Judah approached Joshua at Gilgal, and Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite said to him, “You know what the LORD said to Moses, the man of God, concerning you and me when we were in Kadesh-barnea.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I was forty years old when Moses, the servant of the LORD, sent me from Kadesh-barnea to scout out the land. I reported back to him with an honest account of what I had seen and believed in my heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, my fellow companions who went up with me caused the people's courage to fail, filling them with fear. But as for me, I remained completely faithful to the LORD my God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, Moses made a solemn promise, declaring, "The land upon which your feet have walked will certainly become your inheritance and that of your descendants forever, because you have fully and faithfully followed the LORD my God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, look, the LORD has kept me alive, just as He promised, for these forty-five years, ever since the LORD spoke this word to Moses, while the Israelites journeyed through the wilderness. And now, behold, today I am eighty-five years old.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Even today, I remain as strong as I was on the day Moses sent me. My strength now is just as it was then, whether for battle, for going out, or for returning."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, grant me this hill country that the LORD spoke about on that day. For you heard on that day how the Anakim were there and that the cities were large and fortified. If the LORD is with me, I will be able to drive them out, just as the LORD has said.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua then pronounced a blessing upon him and granted Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, the city of Hebron as his inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, Hebron became the inheritance of Caleb, the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite, and it remains so to this day, because he fully followed the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The city of Hebron was formerly called Kiriath-arba, named after Arba, who was a prominent figure among the Anakim. After these events, the land experienced a period of peace, free from war.</span></p>






</body></html>