<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 33</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s0fnur.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:bcc53aeb-79e6-b8ee-5920-d1df51a2d697" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 33</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Leave this place and go up from here, you and the people you brought out of the land of Egypt, to the land I promised with an oath to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, 'I will give it to your descendants.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will send an angel ahead of you, and I will drive out the Canaanites, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To a land abundant with milk and honey, but I will not go with you in your midst, for you are a stubborn and rebellious people. If I were to accompany you, I might destroy you along the way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people heard this distressing news, they grieved deeply, and no one wore their jewelry or fine clothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD had instructed Moses, saying, "Tell the Israelites, 'You are a stubborn and rebellious people. If I were to come among you even for a moment, I would destroy you. Therefore, remove your ornaments now, so that I may decide how to deal with you.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites removed their ornaments at Mount Horeb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses took the tent of meeting and set it up outside the camp, at a distance from the camp. He called it the Tent of Meeting. Whenever anyone sought the Lord, they would go out to the Tent of Meeting, which was located outside the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Moses went out to the tent of meeting, all the people would rise and stand at the entrance of their tents, watching Moses until he entered the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Moses entered the tabernacle, the pillar of cloud descended and stood at the entrance of the tabernacle, and the LORD spoke with Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people saw the pillar of cloud standing at the entrance of the tabernacle, and they rose up and bowed in worship, each one at the doorway of their own tent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses directly, as one speaks to a close friend. Afterward, Moses returned to the camp, but his assistant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, remained in the tabernacle and did not leave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to the LORD, "Look, You have told me, 'Lead this people up,' but You have not made known to me whom You will send with me. Yet You have said, 'I know you by name, and you have found favor in My sight.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, I ask you, if I have found favor in your sight, please reveal your ways to me, so that I may truly know you and continue to find favor in your sight. And remember, this nation is your people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said, "My presence will accompany you, and I will grant you rest."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to him, "If your presence does not go with us, do not lead us up from here."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How will it be evident here that I and your people have found favor in your sight? Is it not by your presence going with us? This will set us apart—I and your people—from all the other peoples on the face of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "I will also do this thing you have asked, for you have found favor in my sight, and I know you by name."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "I earnestly ask you, show me your glory."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said, "I will cause all My goodness to pass before you, and I will declare the name of the LORD in your presence. I will show favor to whom I choose to show favor, and I will have compassion on whom I choose to have compassion."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said, "You cannot see My face, for no one can see Me and live."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said, "Look, there is a place near me where you can stand on a rock."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen, as my glory passes by, that I will place you in a crevice of the rock and shield you with my hand until I have passed by.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will remove my hand, and you will see my back, but my face must not be seen.</span></p>






</body></html>