<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 27</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s0he7s.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:1e28d4eb-6c27-1c08-2783-66cf63bf618c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 27</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the LORD will wield His fierce, mighty, and powerful sword to bring judgment upon Leviathan, the swift and coiling serpent—yes, Leviathan, the twisting serpent. He will destroy the dragon that dwells in the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, sing to her: "A vineyard of rich, red wine."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, the LORD, will watch over it; I will nourish it constantly. To prevent any harm from coming to it, I will guard it both day and night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am not filled with anger or rage. Who would dare to oppose me with briers and thorns in battle? If they did, I would march right through them and consume them entirely in flames.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Alternatively, let them grasp my power, so that they may establish peace with me; indeed, they will establish peace with me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will enable the descendants of Jacob to take firm root; Israel will flourish and sprout, and they will fill the whole earth with their abundance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Has he struck him as he struck those who struck him? Or has he been killed in the same way as those he has killed?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When it begins to sprout, you will contend with it in moderation; he restrains his fierce wind on the day of the east wind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through this, the guilt of Jacob will be atoned for, and this will be the full result of removing his sin: when he reduces all the stones of the altar to pieces like crushed chalk, the Asherah poles and idols will no longer remain standing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet the fortified city will become desolate, and the once-inhabited place will be abandoned and left like a wilderness. There the calf will graze, and there it will lie down, stripping the branches bare.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When its branches dry up, they will be broken off; women will come and use them as fuel. For this is a people without understanding; therefore, the One who created them will show them no compassion, and He who formed them will grant them no favor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day, that the LORD will drive away [the enemy] from the channel of the river to the brook of Egypt, and you, the people of Israel, will be gathered one by one.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day that a great trumpet will sound, and those who were on the verge of destruction in the land of Assyria, along with the exiles in the land of Egypt, will return. They will come and worship the LORD on the holy mountain in Jerusalem.</span></p>






</body></html>