<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Esther Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s0jdau.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:603ca269-7d16-ac75-39cd-824b3de79c51" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Esther Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Mordecai learned all that had happened, he tore his clothes, put on sackcloth and ashes, and went out into the heart of the city, where he cried out with a loud and anguished voice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they arrived at the entrance to the king’s court, but no one was permitted to enter the king’s gate while wearing sackcloth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In every province where the king’s command and decree reached, the Jews were overcome with deep sorrow. They fasted, wept, and lamented loudly, and many of them dressed in sackcloth and sat in ashes as a sign of their grief and distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Esther’s attendants and her officials came and informed her of the situation. The queen was deeply distressed. She sent garments to clothe Mordecai and to remove his sackcloth from him, but he refused to accept them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Esther summoned Hatach, one of the king’s eunuchs who had been assigned to serve her, and instructed him to go to Mordecai to find out what was happening and why.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Hatach went out to Mordecai in the city square, which was in front of the king’s gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mordecai explained to him everything that had taken place, including the exact amount of money that Haman had pledged to contribute to the king’s treasury in exchange for permission to annihilate the Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also gave him a copy of the written decree that had been issued in Susa for their destruction, to show it to Esther and explain it to her. He instructed her to go to the king, to plead with him, and to make a personal appeal on behalf of her people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Hatach went and reported to Esther everything that Mordecai had said.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, Esther spoke to Hatach and instructed him to deliver a message to Mordecai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the king’s officials and the people of the king’s provinces are aware that for any person, whether man or woman, who approaches the king in the inner court without being summoned, there is a single law: they must be put to death. The only exception is if the king extends the golden scepter to them, allowing them to live. However, I have not been summoned to appear before the king for the past thirty days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mordecai was informed of Esther's message.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mordecai sent this message in reply to Esther: "Do not imagine that you alone among the Jews will escape simply because you are in the king’s palace."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you remain completely silent at this time, relief and deliverance for the Jews will come from another source, but you and your father’s family will perish. And who knows whether you have come to your royal position for a time like this?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Esther instructed them to deliver this reply to Mordecai:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and assemble all the Jews who are currently in Susa, and have them fast on my behalf. Do not eat or drink for three days, both night and day. My attendants and I will also fast in the same way. Afterward, I will go to the king, even though it is against the law. And if I perish, then I perish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mordecai departed and carried out everything that Esther had instructed him to do.</span></p>






</body></html>