<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s0jimq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ed38350f-013e-a5cc-b94e-eed8202dbfa0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message that Isaiah, son of Amoz, received concerning Judah and Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the days to come, the mountain of the LORD's house will be firmly established as the highest of the mountains; it will be raised above the hills, and all nations will stream to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many nations will come and say, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will instruct us in his ways, and we will walk in his paths." For from Zion the law will go forth, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will establish justice among the nations and bring correction to many peoples. They will transform their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning tools. No nation will raise a sword against another, nor will they train for war anymore.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People of Jacob, come, and let us live according to the guidance and truth of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you have abandoned your people, the house of Jacob, because they have become filled with practices from the east and engage in divination like the Philistines. They take pleasure in alliances with foreigners and their ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their land is abundant with silver and gold, and there is no limit to their wealth; their land is also filled with horses, and their chariots are beyond number.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land is filled with idols; they bow down to what their own hands have crafted, to the things their fingers have shaped.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The common person is brought low, and the prominent one is humbled; therefore, do not pardon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take refuge in the rocky cliffs and conceal yourself in the dust, for you will tremble before the awe-inspiring presence of the LORD and the splendor of His majesty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the proud gaze of humanity will be brought low, and the arrogance of people will be humbled. The LORD alone will be lifted high and exalted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the day of the LORD Almighty will come against all who are arrogant and haughty, against all who exalt themselves; and they will be humbled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And upon all the towering cedars of Lebanon, those that rise high and lofty, and upon all the mighty oaks of Bashan,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And on all the high mountains, and on all the elevated hills,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And on every high tower, and on every fortified wall,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And upon all the ships of Tarshish, and upon all the splendid and costly vessels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The pride of humanity will be brought low, and the arrogance of people will be humbled. On that day, the LORD alone will be lifted high and exalted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he will completely destroy the idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People will flee to the crevices of the rocks and hide in the caves of the earth, terrified of the LORD and overwhelmed by the splendor of His majesty, when He rises to shake the earth with awe-inspiring power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, people will throw away their idols of silver and their idols of gold, which they made for themselves to worship, casting them to the moles and the bats.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will flee to the crevices of the cliffs and the highest points of the jagged rocks, terrified of the LORD and overwhelmed by the splendor of His majesty, when He rises to shake the earth with awe-inspiring power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Stop relying on human beings, whose life is as fleeting as the breath in their nostrils. Why should they be considered significant?</span></p>






</body></html>