<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s0naqp.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:bfe5a6a0-ee0f-8a79-f753-99d01a189abc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD said to me, "Even if Moses and Samuel were to stand before me, pleading on their behalf, my heart would not be moved in favor of this people. Send them away from my presence and let them go."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And this is what will happen: if they ask you, "Where should we go?" then you are to tell them, "This is what the LORD says: Those destined for death, to death; those destined for the sword, to the sword; those destined for famine, to famine; and those destined for captivity, to captivity."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord declares: "I will assign four kinds of punishment to them: the sword to kill, the dogs to tear apart, the birds of the sky, and the wild animals of the earth, to devour and destroy them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will scatter them among all the kingdoms of the earth because of what Manasseh, the son of Hezekiah, king of Judah, did in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who will show you compassion, O Jerusalem? Who will mourn for you? Who will turn aside to inquire about your well-being?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares, "You have abandoned me; you have turned away. Therefore, I will raise my hand against you and bring about your destruction. I am weary of holding back my judgment."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will scatter them like chaff at the gates of the land; I will take away their children and bring ruin to my people, for they refuse to turn back from their ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their widows have become more numerous to me than the grains of sand by the seas. I have brought against them—against the mother of young men—a destroyer at midday. I have caused him to descend upon them suddenly, bringing terror upon the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman who bore seven children now grows weak; she breathes her last breath. Her sun has set while it was still day; she is disgraced and humiliated. As for the rest of them, I will hand them over to the sword before their enemies, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it is for me, my mother, that you gave birth to me—a man who causes strife and conflict throughout the land! I have neither borrowed money with interest nor lent it to others at interest, yet everyone curses me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declared, "Truly, it will go well with those who remain of your people. Indeed, I will ensure that your enemies treat you kindly during times of trouble and distress."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Can iron shatter the iron from the north, or break the strength of steel?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will hand over your wealth and your treasures as plunder, without any compensation, because of all your sins, throughout all your territories.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause you to march with your enemies into a land you do not know, for a fire has been ignited by my anger, and it will burn against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, you know all things. Remember me, and come to my aid. Take action against those who persecute me. Do not let me perish while you patiently endure their wrongdoing. Acknowledge that I have endured this disgrace because of my loyalty to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I discovered your words, I eagerly embraced them; your message became a source of joy and delight to my heart, for I bear your name, O LORD, God of all power and might.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I did not join the gathering of those who mock, nor did I take pleasure in their company. I chose to sit alone because of your influence upon me, for you have filled me with deep concern and righteous anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why is my suffering unending, and my wound beyond healing, refusing to be cured? Will you truly be to me like a deceptive stream, like waters that dry up and fail?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says: If you turn back to me, I will restore you, and you will stand in my presence. If you separate what is precious from what is worthless, you will be like my own mouth. Let them come back to you, but you must not go back to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will make you like a fortified bronze wall to this people. They will fight against you, but they will not overcome you, for I am with you to save you and to rescue you, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will rescue you from the grasp of the wicked, and I will redeem you from the power of the ruthless.</span></p>






</body></html>