<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 40</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s0rbq6.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8c0719ab-a8fd-baaa-3af0-dd58b5d126b4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 40</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Bring comfort, yes, bring comfort to my people," says your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak words of comfort to Jerusalem, and proclaim to her that her time of hardship has ended, that her wrongdoing has been forgiven; for she has received from the LORD’s hand double punishment for all her sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The voice of one calling out in the wilderness: "Prepare the way for the LORD; make a straight path in the desert, a highway for our God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every valley will be raised up, and every mountain and hill will be brought low; the uneven ground will become level, and the rugged terrain will be made smooth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The splendor of the LORD will be unveiled, and all humanity will witness it together, for the LORD himself has declared it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A voice said, "Proclaim!" And I replied, "What should I proclaim?" The voice answered, "All humanity is like grass, and all its glory is like the flower of the field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The grass withers, the flower fades, for the breath of the LORD blows upon it. Truly, the people are like grass.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God endures forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Zion, messenger of good news, ascend the high mountain; O Jerusalem, herald of glad tidings, raise your voice with power; lift it up without fear; proclaim to the cities of Judah, "Behold, your God!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the Sovereign LORD will come with mighty power, and his authority will establish his rule. See, his reward accompanies him, and his recompense goes before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will tend his flock like a shepherd; he will gather the lambs in his arms and carry them close to his heart. He will gently guide those that are nursing their young.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who has measured the waters in the palm of his hand, or marked off the heavens with the width of his hand? Who has gathered the dust of the earth in a measuring cup, or weighed the mountains on a scale and the hills on a balance?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who has guided the Spirit of the LORD, or who has served as His advisor to instruct Him?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To whom did He turn for advice, and who guided Him, instructing Him in the ways of justice? Who imparted knowledge to Him and showed Him the path of understanding?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the nations are like a drop from a bucket, as insignificant as a speck of dust on a scale. See, he lifts up the islands as though they weigh almost nothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even all the forests of Lebanon would not provide enough wood for the fire, and all its animals would not be enough for a burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the nations are as nothing before him; they are regarded by him as worthless and insignificant, mere emptiness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To whom, then, will you compare God? What image or likeness can you possibly set beside Him?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The craftsman melts metal to create a carved image, and the goldsmith overlays it with gold and fashions silver chains for it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A person who is so poor that they cannot afford an offering selects a tree that will not decay; they seek out a skilled craftsman to carve an image for them, one that will remain steady and unmoved.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have you not come to know? Have you not heard? Has it not been declared to you from the start? Have you not grasped it since the very creation of the earth?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He is the one who sits enthroned above the sphere of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers before Him. He stretches out the heavens like a thin veil and spreads them out like a tent to live in.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He reduces rulers to nothing; he renders the judges of the earth utterly insignificant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, they will not be planted; indeed, they will not be sown; indeed, their roots will not take hold in the ground. Then He will blow upon them, and they will wither, and the whirlwind will sweep them away like chaff.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To whom, then, will you compare me, or who can be my equal? says the Holy One.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look up to the heavens and see who has created all these things—the One who brings forth their vast array in perfect order, numbering each one. He calls them all by name, such is the greatness of His power and the strength of His might; not a single one is missing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why do you say, O Jacob, and declare, O Israel, "My way is hidden from the LORD, and my cause is disregarded by my God"?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have you not known? Have you not heard? The eternal God, the LORD, the Creator of the farthest reaches of the earth, does not grow faint or weary. His understanding is beyond comprehension; it cannot be fully searched out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He grants strength to the weary, and to those who lack power, He provides renewed vigor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even the strongest and most energetic will grow tired and exhausted, and even the most vigorous young men will stumble and collapse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But those who trust in the LORD will find their strength renewed; they will soar on wings like eagles; they will run and not grow weary; they will walk and not lose heart.</span></p>






</body></html>