<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s0tgwa.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9d2854e2-cddf-42c0-e101-c07cb55d1972" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the thirty-sixth year of Asa's reign, Baasha, the king of Israel, marched against Judah and fortified Ramah. His purpose was to block anyone from leaving or entering the territory of Asa, the king of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Asa took silver and gold from the treasuries of the house of the LORD and the royal palace, and sent them to Ben-hadad, the king of Syria, who lived in Damascus, with this message:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There is an alliance between you and me, just as there was between my father and your father. See, I have sent you silver and gold. Now, go and break your alliance with Baasha, the king of Israel, so that he will withdraw from me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ben-hadad listened to King Asa and dispatched the commanders of his armies to attack the cities of Israel. They struck down Ijon, Dan, Abel-maim, and all the storage cities of Naphtali.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Baasha heard this, he stopped the construction of Ramah and abandoned his building project.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Asa gathered all the people of Judah, and they removed the stones and timber from Ramah, which Baasha had been using for construction. With these materials, Asa built up the towns of Geba and Mizpah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, Hanani the seer came to Asa, king of Judah, and said to him, "Because you have depended on the king of Syria and not on the LORD your God, the army of the king of Syria has escaped from your grasp."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Were not the Cushites and the Libyans a vast army, with a great number of chariots and horsemen? Yet, because you trusted in the LORD, He handed them over to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The eyes of the LORD search every corner of the earth, so that He may powerfully support those whose hearts are fully devoted to Him. In this matter, you have acted foolishly. Because of this, from now on, you will face continual wars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Asa became furious with the seer and had him imprisoned, for he was enraged at him because of this matter. At the same time, Asa also oppressed some of the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, take note: the deeds of Asa, from beginning to end, are indeed recorded in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the thirty-ninth year of his reign, Asa developed a severe disease in his feet, which grew increasingly worse. Yet, even in his illness, he did not seek help from the LORD, but instead relied only on physicians.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Asa passed away and joined his ancestors, dying in the forty-first year of his reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They buried him in the tomb he had prepared for himself in the city of David. They laid his body on a bed filled with fragrant spices and various kinds of aromatic substances, skillfully prepared by perfumers. In his honor, they also held a very large and solemn funeral ceremony.</span></p>






</body></html>