<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s0w0b0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:38a0e45c-b259-8bf4-42e7-59741098ca8c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened that when all the kings who were on the western side of the Jordan River—in the hill country, in the lowlands, and along the entire coast of the Mediterranean Sea near Lebanon—heard about these things, including the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They came together as one, united in purpose, to wage war against Joshua and the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people of Gibeon heard about what Joshua had done to Jericho and Ai,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They acted with cunning and went out pretending to be ambassadors. They took worn-out sacks for their donkeys and old, patched-up wineskins that were torn and mended.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They had worn-out, patched sandals on their feet and were dressed in old, tattered clothing. All the bread they had brought with them was dry and moldy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They came to Joshua at the camp in Gilgal and said to him and to the men of Israel, "We have come from a distant land. Therefore, please make a treaty with us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Israel said to the Hivites, "Perhaps you live among us; how then can we make a covenant with you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to Joshua, "We are your servants." Joshua replied, "Who are you, and where do you come from?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied to him, "We have come from a very distant country because of the reputation of the LORD your God. We have heard about His fame and all that He did in Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites who ruled beyond the Jordan—Sihon, king of Heshbon, and Og, king of Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, our elders and all the people of our land said to us, “Take provisions with you for the journey, go to meet them, and say to them, ‘We are your servants. Please make a covenant with us.’”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This bread of ours was warm and fresh when we packed it as provisions from our homes on the day we set out to come to you. But now, look, it has become dry and crumbled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These wineskins we filled were new, but now they are torn and ruined. Our clothes and sandals have also worn out because of this extremely long journey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men accepted some of their provisions, but they did not seek guidance from the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua made a peaceful agreement with them and established a covenant to spare their lives. The leaders of the Israelite community swore an oath to uphold this agreement.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Three days after they had made a treaty with them, they learned that these people were actually their neighbors and lived among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites continued their journey and arrived at their cities on the third day. These cities were Gibeon, Chephirah, Beeroth, and Kirjath-jearim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites did not attack them because the leaders of the community had sworn an oath to them in the name of the LORD, the God of Israel. However, the entire community grumbled against their leaders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, all the leaders addressed the entire assembly, saying, "We have made a solemn oath to them in the name of the LORD, the God of Israel. Therefore, we cannot harm them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what we will do for them: we will allow them to live, so that no wrath comes upon us because of the oath we swore to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders said to them, "Let them live, but they shall serve as woodcutters and water carriers for the entire community, as the leaders had promised them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua summoned them and said, "Why have you deceived us by claiming, 'We live far away from you,' when in fact you dwell right among us?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you are now under a curse, and none of you will ever be free from serving as forced laborers—cutting wood and drawing water for the house of my God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied to Joshua, saying, "We did this because we were clearly informed by your servants that the LORD your God commanded His servant Moses to give you all this land and to destroy all its inhabitants before you. So we were deeply afraid for our lives because of you, and that is why we took this action."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, look, we are in your hands. Whatever you decide is good and right to do with us, do it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He acted accordingly and rescued them from the power of the Israelites, so that they were not killed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, Joshua assigned them the task of cutting wood and drawing water for the community and for the altar of the LORD, a role they continued to fulfill up to the present day, in the place that the LORD would choose.</span></p>






</body></html>