<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s0wgh3.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6ebcd211-07ce-4f4e-9024-827ff4e1d8bd" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After traveling through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they arrived in Thessalonica, where there was a Jewish synagogue.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As was his custom, Paul went into the synagogue and for three Sabbath days he engaged in discussion with them, explaining and proving from the Scriptures.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Explaining and demonstrating that it was necessary for the Messiah to suffer and to rise again from the dead, and declaring that this Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is indeed the Messiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of them came to believe and joined Paul and Silas. Among them were a large number of devout Greeks, as well as many prominent women.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Jews who did not believe, driven by jealousy, recruited some troublemakers from among the idle and disreputable men in the city. They formed a mob and stirred up unrest throughout the city. They then stormed the house of Jason, attempting to seize Paul and Silas and bring them out before the crowd.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they could not find them, they seized Jason and some other believers and brought them before the city officials, shouting, "These people who have been causing turmoil everywhere have now come here as well!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jason has welcomed them, and they are all acting in defiance of Caesar's decrees, claiming that there is another king—Jesus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They caused great concern and unrest among the people and the city officials when they heard these things.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had obtained a guarantee from Jason and the others, they released them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away during the night to Berea. Upon arriving there, they entered the synagogue of the Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These individuals were more open-minded and honorable than those in Thessalonica, for they eagerly accepted the message and examined the Scriptures every day to verify whether these teachings were true.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, many of them came to believe, including a significant number of prominent Greek women and not a few men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Jews in Thessalonica learned that Paul was proclaiming the word of God in Berea, they went there as well and agitated the crowds, stirring up unrest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Immediately, the believers sent Paul away, directing him toward the coast as if heading to the sea. However, Silas and Timothy remained in that place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people who were accompanying Paul brought him to Athens. After receiving instructions for Silas and Timothy to join him as quickly as possible, they left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While Paul waited for his companions in Athens, he was deeply troubled in spirit as he observed that the city was completely devoted to idol worship.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he engaged in debate in the synagogue with the Jews and with those who were devout, and every day in the marketplace he discussed matters with those who happened to be there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then some philosophers from the Epicurean and Stoic schools engaged him in conversation. Some of them said, "What is this babbler trying to say?" Others remarked, "He seems to be advocating foreign deities," because he was proclaiming to them the message of Jesus and the resurrection.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They took him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, "Can you explain to us what this new teaching is that you are presenting? We would like to understand it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are presenting some unusual ideas to us; we would like to understand what these things mean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the Athenians and the foreigners living there spent their time doing nothing other than discussing or listening to the latest ideas.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul stood in the middle of the Areopagus and said, "Men of Athens, I observe that in every way you are deeply religious."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As I walked through your city and observed the objects of your worship, I came across an altar with this inscription: "TO AN UNKNOWN GOD." The one you are honoring without knowing, I now proclaim to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The God who created the world and everything in it, being the Lord of heaven and earth, does not reside in temples built by human hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God is not served by human hands as if He needed anything, since He Himself gives to everyone life, breath, and everything else.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from one ancestor, He created all the nations of humanity to inhabit the entire earth. He established their appointed times and the boundaries of their dwelling places.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That they should seek the Lord, in the hope that they might reach out for him and find him, though he is not far from each one of us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For in Him we live, move, and exist; as even some of your own poets have said, 'For we are His offspring.'</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since we are God’s offspring, we should not assume that the divine nature is like something made of gold, silver, or stone, shaped by human skill and imagination.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the past, God overlooked the times of human ignorance, but now He commands all people everywhere to turn away from their sins and change their ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For God has set a specific day when He will judge the world with justice through the man He has appointed. He has provided proof of this to all people by raising Him from the dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they heard about the resurrection of the dead, some ridiculed the idea, while others said, "We will listen to you again about this matter."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Paul left their presence and went away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, some individuals joined him and came to believe, including Dionysius the Areopagite, a woman named Damaris, and several others alongside them.</span></p>






</body></html>