<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 48</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s0ztnv.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:df3c640f-461c-dde8-4f49-2c3f47e24c68" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 48</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, says concerning Moab: Woe to Nebo, for it is destroyed! Kiriathaim is disgraced and captured; Misgab is shamed and filled with terror.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moab will no longer be praised. In Heshbon, they have plotted evil against it, saying, "Come, let us destroy it as a nation." You too, O Madmen, will be silenced; the sword will relentlessly pursue you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A cry of anguish will rise from Horonaim, signaling devastation and overwhelming ruin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moab is utterly devastated; the cries of its children echo far and wide.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For on the ascent of Luhith, there will be continuous weeping; and on the descent of Horonaim, the enemies have heard a cry of devastation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Run for your lives, escape and survive, and become like a barren shrub in the desert.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you have placed your confidence in your own achievements and your wealth, you will indeed be captured. Chemosh, along with his priests and leaders, will be taken into exile together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The destroyer will come against every city, and no city will escape; the valley will be laid waste, and the plain will be ruined, just as the LORD has declared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Grant Moab the means to escape, that it may flee and depart, for its cities will become desolate, with no one left to inhabit them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Cursed is anyone who carries out the Lord’s work with deceit, and cursed is anyone who holds back their sword from shedding blood when it is required.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moab has lived in comfort since its early days, undisturbed and settled like wine left on its sediment. It has not been poured from one container to another, nor has it gone into exile. As a result, its flavor has remained unchanged, and its aroma has not faded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully, the time is coming, declares the LORD, when I will send against him those who will make him wander aimlessly. They will strip him of his possessions, emptying his vessels and shattering his jars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moab will be disgraced because of Chemosh, just as the people of Israel were disgraced because of Bethel, the object of their misplaced trust.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How can you claim, "We are powerful and strong warriors for battle"?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moab has been devastated and has fled from its cities. Its finest young men have been slaughtered, declares the King, whose name is the LORD of Armies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The disaster destined for Moab is close at hand, and its suffering is swiftly approaching.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of you who are close to him, mourn for him; and all of you who know his name, cry out, "How the mighty scepter has been shattered, and the glorious rod destroyed!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You, daughter who dwell in Dibon, descend from your splendor and sit in thirst, for the destroyer of Moab will come against you, and he will demolish your fortresses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You who live in Aroer, stand by the roadside and watch; ask those who are fleeing and those who have escaped, and say, "What has happened?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moab is utterly dismayed, for it has been devastated. Wail and cry out! Proclaim it along the Arnon River that Moab has been plundered and laid waste.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And judgment has come upon the open plains—upon Holon, Jahazah, and Mephaath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning Dibon, and concerning Nebo, and concerning Beth-diblathaim...</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning Kiriathaim, and concerning Beth-gamul, and concerning Beth-meon,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And against Kerioth, and against Bozrah, and against all the cities of the land of Moab, whether distant or nearby.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The strength of Moab has been destroyed, and its power has been shattered, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Make him drunk, for he has exalted himself against the LORD. Moab will wallow in his own vomit, and he will become an object of ridicule.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Was Israel not an object of mockery to you? Was he treated like a thief? Yet whenever you spoke of him, you leaped with joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You who live in Moab, abandon your cities and take refuge in the rocky cliffs. Be like the dove that builds its nest in the crevices of the rock, finding safety and shelter there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have heard of Moab's arrogance—indeed, he is exceedingly proud—his loftiness, his conceit, his overbearing pride, and the haughtiness of his heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am fully aware of his anger, declares the LORD, but it will not prevail; his deceitful schemes will not accomplish what he intends.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will wail for Moab, and I will cry out in anguish for all of Moab; my heart will grieve deeply for the people of Kir-heres.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O vine of Sibmah, I will mourn for you with the same deep sorrow as for Jazer. Your branches have spread across the sea, reaching even to the waters of Jazer. The destroyer has fallen upon your summer fruits and your harvest, leaving them ruined.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joy and gladness have been stripped away from the fertile fields and the land of Moab. I have stopped the flow of wine from the winepresses; no one will tread the grapes with shouts of celebration. Their shouts will no longer be shouts of joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Heshbon to Elealeh, and as far as Jahaz, their cries have been heard; from Zoar to Horonaim, they have raised their voices like a young heifer. Even the waters of Nimrim will become a desolate wasteland.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, declares the LORD, I will put an end in Moab to those who offer sacrifices on the high places and those who burn incense to their gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, my heart will mourn for Moab like the sound of pipes, and my heart will lament like pipes for the people of Kir-heres, because the wealth they have acquired has been destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every head will be shaved, and every beard will be cut short. There will be marks of mourning on all hands, and everyone will wear sackcloth around their waist.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There will be widespread mourning on all the rooftops of Moab and in its streets, for I have shattered Moab like a useless vessel, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will cry out in anguish, saying, "How utterly it has been destroyed! How has Moab turned away in disgrace!" Thus, Moab will become an object of mockery and terror to all those around them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says: Look, he will soar like an eagle and stretch out his wings over Moab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Kerioth has been captured, and the fortresses have been seized. On that day, the hearts of Moab’s mighty warriors will tremble like the heart of a woman in the throes of childbirth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moab will cease to exist as a nation because it has arrogantly exalted itself against the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Terror, the pit, and the trap will come upon you, O inhabitant of Moab, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever tries to escape from terror will fall into a pit, and whoever climbs out of the pit will be caught in a trap. For I will bring upon Moab the time of their judgment, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who fled took refuge in the shadow of Heshbon, seeking safety from the advancing force. But a fire will blaze out from Heshbon, and flames will erupt from the midst of Sihon, consuming the outskirts of Moab and the proud leaders of the rebellious ones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for you, O Moab! The people who worship Chemosh are doomed, for your sons have been taken as captives, and your daughters as well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nevertheless, I will restore the fortunes of Moab in the days to come, declares the LORD. This concludes the judgment concerning Moab.</span></p>






</body></html>