<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezra Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s11w21.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3c3ca7f4-feba-1638-6d3d-5a32b23d85cb" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezra Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the leaders of their ancestral families, and this is the record of those who accompanied me from Babylon during the reign of King Artaxerxes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Phinehas: Gershom. From the descendants of Ithamar: Daniel. From the descendants of David: Hattush.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Shecaniah, of the family of Parosh, was Zechariah. Along with him, there were 150 males registered by genealogy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Pahath-moab: Elihoenai, the son of Zerahiah, along with two hundred men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Shecaniah: Jahaziel's son, along with three hundred men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Adin: Ebed, the son of Jonathan, along with fifty men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Elam: Jeshaiah, the son of Athaliah, along with seventy males who accompanied him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from the descendants of Shephatiah: Zebadiah, the son of Michael, along with eighty males.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Joab: Obadiah, the son of Jehiel, along with 218 men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from the descendants of Shelomith: the son of Josiphiah, along with one hundred and sixty males.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Bebai, Zechariah son of Bebai came, accompanied by twenty-eight males.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from the descendants of Azgad: Johanan, the son of Hakkatan, along with one hundred and ten males.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from the descendants of Adonikam, the final group, whose names are Eliphelet, Jeiel, and Shemaiah, along with sixty males.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Bigvai: Uthai and Zabbud, along with seventy males who accompanied them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I assembled the people at the river that flows toward Ahava, and we camped there for three days. As I examined the group, including the people and the priests, I discovered that none of the descendants of Levi were present among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I then summoned Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan, Jarib, another Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah, and Meshullam, who were prominent leaders, as well as Joiarib and Elnathan, men known for their wisdom and discernment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I sent them with instructions to Iddo, the leader at the place called Casiphia, and I told them what to say to Iddo and his fellow Levites, the temple servants, at Casiphia. I directed them to ask for attendants to be sent to us for the service of the house of our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By the gracious favor of our God upon us, they brought us a wise and discerning man from the descendants of Mahli, who was of the tribe of Levi, the son of Israel. Along with him came Sherebiah, along with his sons and his relatives, totaling eighteen men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Hashabiah, along with Jeshaiah from the descendants of Merari, his relatives, and their sons—twenty in total—were present.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, there were the Nethinim, whom David and the leaders had assigned to assist the Levites in their duties. The total number of these Nethinim was two hundred and twenty, and each one was specifically listed by name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I called for a fast there by the Ahava River, so that we might humble ourselves before our God and seek from Him a safe and proper journey for us, for our children, and for all our possessions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I felt ashamed to ask the king for a detachment of soldiers and horsemen to protect us from enemies along the way, because we had confidently declared to the king, "The hand of our God is upon all who seek Him for their good, but His power and wrath are against all who abandon Him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So we fasted and earnestly prayed to our God concerning this matter, and he responded to our plea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I selected twelve of the leading priests, including Sherebiah and Hashabiah, along with ten of their fellow priests to assist them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He carefully measured out to them the silver, the gold, and the sacred vessels—these were the offerings dedicated to the house of our God, which had been given by the king, his advisors, his officials, and all the people of Israel who were present.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I carefully measured out and gave into their hands six hundred and fifty talents of silver, along with silver articles weighing one hundred talents, and one hundred talents of gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, there were twenty gold bowls, each weighing a thousand darics, and two vessels of fine bronze, as valuable as gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I said to them, "You are set apart as holy to the LORD, and the vessels are also holy. The silver and gold are a voluntary offering to the LORD, the God of your ancestors."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be vigilant and guard them carefully until you present them to be weighed in the presence of the chief priests, the Levites, and the leaders of the families of Israel in Jerusalem, within the chambers of the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests and the Levites then took charge of the silver, the gold, and the sacred vessels, carrying them to Jerusalem to bring them to the house of our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We set out from the Ahava River on the twelfth day of the first month to journey to Jerusalem. The hand of our God was with us, protecting us from the power of our enemies and from those who ambushed us along the way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We arrived in Jerusalem and stayed there for three days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fourth day, the silver, the gold, and the vessels were weighed in the house of our God under the supervision of Meremoth, the son of Uriah the priest. Assisting him were Eleazar, the son of Phinehas, as well as Jozabad, the son of Jeshua, and Noadiah, the son of Binnui, who were Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each item was carefully counted and weighed, and the total weight was recorded at that time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of those who had been taken into exile, who had returned from captivity, presented burnt offerings to the God of Israel: twelve bulls for all Israel, ninety-six rams, seventy-seven lambs, and twelve male goats as a sin offering. All of this was a burnt offering to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They delivered the king's official orders to the royal officials and the governors of the region west of the Euphrates River. These officials then supported the people and the work on the house of God.</span></p>






</body></html>