<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 45</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s14g4l.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:01df2a55-a376-c9d1-d612-e5ec67e044e3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 45</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says to his chosen one, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have taken hold of, to bring nations under his control. I will strip kings of their strength, so that doors will open before him, and gates will not remain closed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will go ahead of you and make the uneven paths level; I will shatter the gates of bronze and cut through the bars of iron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will grant you the treasures hidden in darkness and the riches concealed in secret places, so that you may recognize that I, the LORD, who call you by your name, am the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the sake of Jacob, my servant, and Israel, my chosen one, I have called you by your name; I have given you a title of honor, even though you did not acknowledge me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am the LORD, and there is no other; there is no God besides me. I have equipped and strengthened you, even though you have not acknowledged me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that all people, from the east to the west, may come to understand that there is no one besides me. I am the LORD, and there is no other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I create light and bring forth darkness; I establish peace and bring about calamity. I, the LORD, am the one who accomplishes all these things.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let the heavens above descend, and may the skies pour down righteousness; let the earth open wide, bringing forth salvation, and may righteousness sprout up together. I, the LORD, have created this.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it is for anyone to argue with their Creator! Let the broken piece of pottery contend with the other fragments of the earth. Does the clay dare say to the one who shapes it, “What are you making?” or complain, “Your work lacks skill”?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for anyone who says to their father, "What have you produced?" or to their mother, "What have you given birth to?" This is a grave insult, showing contempt for the sacred roles of parents in bringing forth life, which is a gift from God. Such words dishonor the divine order and the blessing of family.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, and his Creator says: "Ask me about what is to come concerning my children, and give me instructions regarding the work of my hands."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have created the earth and formed humanity upon it. It is I—my own hands—that have stretched out the heavens and established all their vast array. I have commanded their order and purpose.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have established him with righteousness, and I will guide all his actions. He will rebuild my city and set free my captives, not for payment or reward, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: The wealth of Egypt, the goods of Ethiopia, and the riches of the Sabeans—tall and impressive people—will come to you and belong to you. They will follow behind you, coming in chains. They will bow down before you and plead with you, saying, "Truly, God is with you, and there is no other; there is no God besides Him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Truly, you are a God who conceals yourself, O God of Israel, the Savior.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of them will be put to shame and disgraced—those who craft idols will be utterly humiliated; they will be brought to disgrace together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Israel will be delivered by the LORD with an eternal salvation; you will never be put to shame or disgraced, now or forevermore.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD, who created the heavens, says—God himself, who formed the earth and fashioned it, who established it and did not create it to be empty, but shaped it to be inhabited: "I am the LORD, and there is no other."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have not spoken in secret, nor in some hidden corner of the earth. I did not say to the descendants of Jacob, "Seek me for nothing." I, the LORD, speak what is true and right; I declare what is just and upright.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gather together and come near, all of you who have survived among the nations. Those who carry their wooden idols and pray to a god that cannot save have no understanding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Proclaim this and present your case; let them consult together and consider: Who declared this long ago? Who announced it from ancient times? Was it not I, the LORD? There is no other God besides me—a righteous God and a Savior; there is none besides me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Turn your attention to me and be delivered, all you who dwell in the farthest corners of the earth; for I am God, and there is no other. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have made a solemn promise by my own authority; my declaration has gone forth with integrity and will not be revoked: Every knee will bow before me, and every tongue will pledge allegiance to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, one will declare, "In the LORD alone I find righteousness and strength." All who turn to Him will come, and all who are angered against Him will be put to shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the LORD, all the descendants of Israel will be declared righteous and will take pride.</span></p>






</body></html>