<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s1a1b8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2e5a00e2-900c-f5a2-3f26-aae2ab76598f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Go to Pharaoh, for I have made his heart stubborn, along with the hearts of his officials, so that I may display these miraculous signs of mine before him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so you may recount to your son and your grandson the mighty deeds I performed in Egypt and the signs I displayed among them, so that you may understand that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and said to him, "This is what the LORD, the God of the Hebrews, declares: How long will you refuse to submit to me? Let my people go, so that they may worship me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you refuse to let my people go, then tomorrow I will bring locusts into your territory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will cover the surface of the land so completely that no one will be able to see the ground. They will devour whatever remains after the hail—what has survived and is left for you in the fields—and they will consume every tree that grows in your fields.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will fill your houses, the houses of all your officials, and the homes of all the Egyptians—something that neither your ancestors nor your ancestors' ancestors have ever seen, from the time they first lived on the earth until this very day." Then he turned and left Pharaoh's presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh's officials said to him, "How long will this man continue to be a trap for us? Let the people go, so they may worship the LORD their God. Do you not yet realize that Egypt is being ruined?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Aaron were brought back to Pharaoh, and he said to them, "Go, worship the LORD your God. But tell me, who exactly will be going?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said, "We will go with everyone—our young and our old, our sons and our daughters, our flocks and our herds. We must go, for we are to celebrate a festival to the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to them, "May the LORD be with you in the same way that I allow you and your children to go. Be warned, for trouble lies ahead of you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No, that will not do. Only the men may go and serve the LORD, as you have requested." And they were expelled from Pharaoh's presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Reach out your hand over the land of Egypt to bring the locusts, so that they may swarm over the land of Egypt and devour every plant in the land—everything that the hail has spared."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses raised his staff over the land of Egypt, and the LORD caused an east wind to blow across the land all that day and throughout the night. When morning came, the east wind had brought the locusts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The locusts swarmed over the entire land of Egypt and settled in every region of the country. They were extremely severe; never before had there been such a swarm of locusts, nor would there ever be one like it again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The locusts spread across the entire land, covering the face of the earth so completely that the ground was darkened. They devoured every plant in the land and all the fruit on the trees that the hail had spared. Not a single green leaf remained on the trees or on the plants in the fields throughout all the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pharaoh urgently summoned Moses and Aaron and said, "I have sinned against the LORD your God and against you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, I beg you, forgive my sin just this once, and plead with the LORD your God to remove this deadly punishment from me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he left Pharaoh's presence and pleaded with the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD caused a powerful west wind to blow, which swept away the locusts and drove them into the Red Sea. Not a single locust remained anywhere in the entire land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the LORD caused Pharaoh's heart to become stubborn, so that he refused to allow the Israelites to leave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Reach out your hand toward the sky, so that darkness may cover the land of Egypt—a darkness so thick it can be felt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses raised his hand toward the heavens, and a deep darkness covered the entire land of Egypt for three days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one could see another, and no one rose from their place for three days. However, all the Israelites had light in their homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh summoned Moses and said, "Go, worship the LORD. However, your flocks and herds must remain here. Only your children may go with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said, "You must also provide us with animals for sacrifices and burnt offerings, so that we may present them to the LORD our God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our livestock must also go with us; not a single hoof will be left behind, for we must take them to serve the LORD our God. We do not yet know what we will need to serve the LORD until we arrive there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the LORD caused Pharaoh's heart to become stubborn, and he refused to allow them to leave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh said to him, "Leave my presence. Be warned—do not appear before me again, for on the day you see my face, you will die."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses replied, "You have spoken rightly; I will not see your face again."</span></p>






</body></html>