<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s1b6u0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:12532512-e07b-e400-1c49-f3d317ffd30a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Josiah was eight years old when he became king, and he ruled for thirty-one years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jedidah, the daughter of Adaiah from Boscath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, following completely in the ways of his father David, and did not deviate to the right or to the left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eighteenth year of King Josiah’s reign, the king sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah and grandson of Meshullam, who was the royal secretary, to the house of the LORD with this command:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go to Hilkiah the high priest and instruct him to tally the silver that has been brought into the house of the LORD, which the doorkeepers have collected from the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And let them entrust the funds to those who are responsible for overseeing the work on the house of the LORD. These overseers should then distribute the money to the workers who are carrying out the repairs on the house of the LORD, to fix the damages and restore the structure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the carpenters, builders, and stonemasons, and to purchase timber and cut stone for the repair of the house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, no accounting was required of them for the money entrusted to their care, because they acted with complete integrity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hilkiah, the high priest, said to Shaphan the scribe, "I have discovered the Book of the Law in the house of the LORD." Hilkiah then handed the book to Shaphan, and he read it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shaphan the scribe went to the king and reported back, saying, "Your servants have collected the money that was found in the temple and have entrusted it to the workers who are overseeing the repairs of the house of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shaphan the scribe presented the matter to the king, saying, "Hilkiah the priest has given me a book." Then Shaphan read it aloud in the presence of the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the king heard the words written in the book of the law, he tore his clothes in distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king gave orders to Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam son of Shaphan, Achbor son of Michaiah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asahiah, a servant of the king, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and seek the Lord’s guidance on my behalf, on behalf of the people, and on behalf of all Judah, concerning the words of this book that has been discovered. For the Lord’s fierce anger has been ignited against us because our ancestors did not obey the words of this book or act in accordance with all that is written concerning us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Hilkiah the priest, along with Ahikam, Achbor, Shaphan, and Asahiah, went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum son of Tikvah, who was the son of Harhas, the keeper of the royal wardrobe. (She lived in Jerusalem in the Second District.) They spoke with her and sought her counsel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said to them, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: Tell the man who sent you to me,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "Listen carefully, I am going to bring disaster upon this place and its inhabitants—fulfilling every word written in the book that the king of Judah has read.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they have abandoned me and have offered sacrifices to other gods, provoking me to anger with everything they have made with their own hands, my fury will be ignited against this place, and it will not be extinguished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But to the king of Judah who sent you to seek guidance from the LORD, this is what you shall say to him: This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares concerning the words you have heard:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because your heart was responsive and you humbled yourself before the LORD when you heard what I declared against this place and its inhabitants—that they would become a desolation and a curse—and because you tore your clothes and wept in my presence, I have indeed heard you, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, therefore: I will gather you to your ancestors, and you will be laid to rest in your grave in peace. Your eyes will not see all the disaster that I am going to bring upon this place." Then they reported this message back to the king.</span></p>






</body></html>