<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 25</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s1dke2.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ad45729c-b085-3b02-40d8-3080f625bdfe" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 25</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amaziah was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned for twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jehoaddan, and she was from Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, but not with a wholehearted devotion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When his rule was firmly established, he executed the servants who had murdered his father, the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, he did not put their children to death, but acted in accordance with what is written in the law, in the book of Moses, where the LORD commanded, saying, "Fathers shall not be put to death for the sins of their children, nor shall children be put to death for the sins of their fathers. Each person shall die for their own sin."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amaziah assembled the people of Judah and appointed commanders over units of thousands and hundreds, organized according to their ancestral families, throughout all of Judah and Benjamin. He conducted a census of those twenty years old and above and found there were three hundred thousand capable men, chosen and ready for battle, skilled in wielding spear and shield.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also hired one hundred thousand strong and courageous warriors from Israel for one hundred talents of silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man of God came to him and said, "O king, do not let the army of Israel go with you, for the LORD is not with Israel—that is, with all the people of Ephraim."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you insist on going, then go ahead and prepare yourself for battle. However, God will cause you to fall before your enemies, for God has the power to bring victory or defeat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amaziah asked the man of God, "But what should we do about the hundred talents I have already paid to the army of Israel?" The man of God replied, "The LORD has the power to give you far more than this."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Amaziah dismissed the troops that had come to him from Ephraim, sending them back to their homes. This action greatly angered them against Judah, and they returned home in fierce indignation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amaziah gathered his strength, assembled his people, and led them to the Valley of Salt. There, he struck down ten thousand of the people of Seir.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The children of Judah also took ten thousand survivors as captives and brought them to the top of a cliff. From there, they threw them down, causing them to be shattered and killed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the troops that Amaziah had dismissed, preventing them from joining him in battle, raided the cities of Judah, from Samaria all the way to Beth-horon. They killed three thousand people and carried off a great amount of plunder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Amaziah returned from defeating the Edomites, he brought back the gods of the people of Seir, set them up as his own gods, bowed down before them, and offered incense to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD’s anger burned against Amaziah, and He sent a prophet to him, who said, “Why have you sought the gods of the people, who could not even rescue their own people from your hand?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the king was speaking with him, he said, "Have you been appointed as one of my advisors? Stop now—why should you be struck down?" So the prophet stopped speaking but said, "I know that God has decided to destroy you because you have done this and have not listened to my advice."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Amaziah of Judah sought counsel and sent a message to Joash, the son of Jehoahaz and grandson of Jehu, the king of Israel, saying, "Come, let us meet face to face."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joash, the king of Israel, sent a message to Amaziah, the king of Judah, saying, "The thistle in Lebanon sent a request to the cedar in Lebanon, saying, 'Give your daughter to my son as a wife.' But then a wild animal from Lebanon came by and trampled the thistle underfoot."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You say, ‘Look, you have defeated the Edomites,’ and your heart is filled with pride, leading you to boast. But stay at home; why should you provoke trouble that will bring harm to yourself, causing you to fall, and Judah along with you?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Amaziah refused to listen, for this was from God, so that He might hand them over to their enemies, because they had sought the gods of Edom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So King Joash of Israel advanced, and he and King Amaziah of Judah confronted each other face to face at Beth-shemesh, which belongs to Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah was defeated by Israel, and each man fled to his own home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Joash of Israel captured Amaziah, king of Judah, who was the son of Joash and grandson of Jehoahaz, at Beth-shemesh. He then brought Amaziah to Jerusalem and tore down a section of the city wall, stretching from the Ephraim Gate to the Corner Gate, a distance of four hundred cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took all the gold and silver, along with all the sacred vessels that were in the house of God under the care of Obed-edom, as well as the treasures from the king’s palace. He also took the hostages and then returned to Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amaziah, the son of Joash, king of Judah, lived for fifteen years after the death of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for the rest of the events of Amaziah’s reign, from beginning to end, are they not recorded in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah and Israel?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Amaziah turned away from following the LORD, a conspiracy was formed against him in Jerusalem. He fled to Lachish, but they pursued him there and killed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They transported his body on horses and buried him with his ancestors in the city of Judah.</span></p>






</body></html>