<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s1eu90.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7441cda9-6879-5e37-632b-d22c191f40f2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire assembly raised their voices and cried out, and the people wept throughout that night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the Israelites began to complain against Moses and Aaron, and the entire community said to them, "If only we had died in the land of Egypt! Or if only we had died here in this wilderness!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why has the LORD brought us to this land, only to die by the sword, leaving our wives and children to become plunder? Would it not have been better for us to return to Egypt?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they said to one another, "Let us appoint a leader and go back to Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Moses and Aaron bowed down with their faces to the ground in the presence of the entire gathering of the Israelite community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua, the son of Nun, and Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, who were among those who had explored the land, tore their clothes in distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They addressed the entire community of the Israelites, saying, "The land we explored and passed through is an exceptionally good land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the LORD is pleased with us, then He will bring us into this land and give it to us—a land that is rich and abundant, flowing with milk and honey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not rebel against the LORD, nor be afraid of the people of the land, for they will be as food for us. Their protection has been removed from them, and the LORD is with us. Do not fear them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire assembly demanded that they be stoned to death. At that moment, the glory of the LORD appeared in the tabernacle before all the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "How long will this people continue to provoke me? How long will they refuse to trust me, despite all the miraculous signs I have performed among them?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will strike them with a deadly plague and remove them from their inheritance. Then I will make you into a greater and more powerful nation than they are.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to the LORD, "Then the Egyptians will hear about it—since you brought this people out from among them by your great power—"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will report this to the inhabitants of this land, for they have heard that you, the LORD, are present among this people, that you, the LORD, are seen face to face, and that your cloud stands over them. They have also heard that you go before them—by day in a pillar of cloud and by night in a pillar of fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you were to destroy all these people as one, then the nations who have heard of your reputation would say,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because the LORD was unable to bring these people into the land He had promised them with an oath, He caused them to die in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, I earnestly ask you, may the power of my Lord be displayed in its fullness, just as you have declared when you said,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD is patient and abundantly merciful, forgiving wrongdoing and rebellion. Yet He does not leave the guilty unpunished, holding them accountable for their sins. He extends the consequences of a father’s iniquity to his children, even to the third and fourth generation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I humbly ask you to forgive the wrongdoing of this people, in keeping with the vastness of your steadfast love, just as you have pardoned this people from the time they left Egypt up to now.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD responded, "I have forgiven them, just as you have requested."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As surely as I live, the entire earth will be filled with the glory of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because all those men who have witnessed my glory and the miracles I performed in Egypt and in the wilderness, yet have tested me these ten times and refused to obey my voice—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, they will not see the land that I promised to their ancestors with an oath. None of those who have defied me will ever see it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But my servant Caleb, because he had a different spirit within him and remained wholly devoted to me, I will bring him into the land he explored, and his descendants will inherit it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">(Now the Amalekites and the Canaanites were living in the valley.) Tomorrow, turn back and journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How long must I endure this wicked community that complains against me? I have heard the grumblings of the Israelites, which they direct toward me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell them this: As surely as I live, declares the LORD, just as you have spoken in my hearing, so I will do to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your bodies will fall in this wilderness. Every one of you who was counted in the census, from twenty years old and above, who has complained against me,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, you will not enter the land that I swore to settle you in, except for Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, your children, whom you feared would become plunder, I will bring them into the land, and they will experience the land that you have rejected.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But as for you, your bodies will fall in this wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your children will wander in the wilderness for forty years, enduring the consequences of your unfaithfulness, until your lifeless bodies lie in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After the forty days you spent exploring the land—each day representing a year—you will bear the consequences of your sins for forty years. In this way, you will come to understand what it means to oppose my promise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has declared: I will certainly carry out this judgment against this entire wicked assembly that has united against me. In this wilderness, they will be utterly destroyed, and there they will meet their end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men whom Moses sent to explore the land returned and caused the entire community to grumble against him by spreading a false and damaging report about the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men who spread the malicious report about the land died by a plague in the presence of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Joshua son of Nun and Caleb son of Jephunneh, who were among the men sent to explore the land, remained alive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses communicated these words to all the Israelites, and the people were deeply grieved.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They got up early in the morning and climbed to the top of the mountain, declaring, "Here we are, ready to go up to the place the LORD has promised, even though we have sinned."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said, "Why are you now breaking the command of the LORD? It will not succeed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not go up, for the LORD is not with you. If you proceed, you will be defeated by your enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the Amalekites and the Canaanites are already there ahead of you, and you will be struck down by the sword. Because you have turned away from the LORD, the LORD will not be with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they boldly decided to advance to the top of the hill, even though the ark of the LORD's covenant and Moses did not leave the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Amalekites advanced, along with the Canaanites who lived in that hill country, and they attacked them, overwhelming them and driving them back as far as Hormah.</span></p>






</body></html>