<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s1f1hu.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:430d6862-c9fd-7d3c-1865-789873b694c4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson traveled to Timnah, and there he saw a woman among the daughters of the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He went and told his father and mother, saying, "I have seen a woman in Timnah, one of the daughters of the Philistines. Now, please arrange for her to be my wife."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then his father and mother said to him, "Is there no woman among the daughters of your relatives or among all our people, that you must go and take a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines?" But Samson replied to his father, "Get her for me, because she is the one I desire."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, his father and mother did not realize that this was from the LORD, who was seeking an opportunity to confront the Philistines. For at that time, the Philistines ruled over Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Samson went down to Timnah, accompanied by his father and mother. When they arrived at the vineyards of Timnah, suddenly a young lion came roaring toward him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Spirit of the LORD powerfully came upon him, and he tore the lion apart as easily as one might tear apart a young goat, even though he had nothing in his hand. But he did not tell his father or mother what he had done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he went down and spoke with the woman, and she found favor in Samson’s eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After some time, he returned to take her as his wife, and on his way, he turned aside to look at the carcass of the lion. To his surprise, he found a swarm of bees and honey in the lion’s carcass.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took some of the honey in his hands and continued eating. Then he went to his father and mother, gave them some, and they ate it as well. However, he did not tell them that he had taken the honey from the carcass of the lion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So his father went down to the woman, and Samson held a feast there, as was the custom for young men to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they saw him, they brought thirty companions to accompany him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson said to them, "Let me propose a riddle to you. If you can solve it and explain it to me within the seven days of the feast, I will give you thirty linen garments and thirty sets of clothing."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you cannot explain it to me, then you must give me thirty linen garments and thirty sets of clothing. They replied to him, "Tell us your riddle so that we may hear it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "From the devourer came something to eat, and from the strong came something sweet." But for three days, they were unable to solve the riddle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day, they said to Samson’s wife, “Persuade your husband to explain the riddle to us, or we will burn you and your father’s household to death. Did you invite us here to take what belongs to us? Isn’t that what you’ve done?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson’s wife wept in front of him and said, “You must hate me and don’t truly love me. You’ve told a riddle to my people but haven’t explained it to me.” He replied, “Look, I haven’t even told my father or mother. Should I really tell you?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She wept before him for the entire seven days of the feast. On the seventh day, he finally told her the answer because she had pressed him so intensely. Then she revealed the riddle to her people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of the city said to him on the seventh day, just before sunset, "What is sweeter than honey? And what is stronger than a lion?" He replied to them, "If you had not used my heifer to plow, you would not have solved my riddle."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Spirit of the LORD empowered him, and he went down to Ashkelon, where he killed thirty of their men, took their belongings, and gave the garments he had taken to those who had solved the riddle. But his anger burned within him, and he returned to his father’s house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Samson’s wife was given to his companion, the one who had been his close friend.</span></p>






</body></html>