<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezra Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s1gxsd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d0ad5292-c5bb-01e5-37cf-839995f48b32" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezra Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the enemies of Judah and Benjamin learned that the exiles were rebuilding the temple for the LORD, the God of Israel,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they approached Zerubbabel and the leaders of the families and said to them, "Let us join you in building, for we worship your God just as you do. We have been offering sacrifices to Him ever since the days of Esar-haddon, king of Assyria, who brought us here."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Zerubbabel, Jeshua, and the other leaders of Israel’s families responded to them, saying, “You have no part with us in building a house for our God. We alone will build it for the LORD, the God of Israel, just as King Cyrus of Persia has commanded us.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the inhabitants of the land sought to discourage the people of Judah and hinder them as they worked on the rebuilding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They hired advisors to oppose them and undermine their plans throughout the entire reign of Cyrus, king of Persia, and continuing until the reign of Darius, king of Persia.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the reign of Ahasuerus, at the beginning of his rule, they wrote to him a formal complaint against the people of Judah and Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the reign of Artaxerxes, Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and their associates wrote to Artaxerxes, the king of Persia. The letter was composed in the Aramaic language and was also translated into Aramaic.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rehum, the governor, and Shimshai, the secretary, wrote a letter to King Artaxerxes concerning Jerusalem, which read as follows:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Rehum the governor, Shimshai the secretary, and their associates—the officials from Dinah, Apharsath, Tarpel, Aphar, Archev, Babylon, Susa, Dehav, and Elam—wrote the following:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining peoples whom the great and noble Asnappar deported and settled in the cities of Samaria, along with the others living beyond the river, were also present at that time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the text of the letter they sent to him, addressed to King Artaxerxes:  From your servants, the men of the region beyond the river, written at this time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let it be made known to the king that the Jews who came from your territory to us have arrived in Jerusalem. They are rebuilding that defiant and troublesome city, restoring its walls, and repairing its foundations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let it be made known to the king that if this city is rebuilt and its walls are restored, they will refuse to pay taxes, tribute, or duties, and this will harm the royal revenue.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since we receive provisions from the king's palace, and it would not be fitting for us to witness the king's dishonor, we have sent word to inform the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that a search may be conducted in the archives of your ancestors' records, you will find in those historical documents and understand that this city has been a rebellious place, causing harm to kings and provinces. It has long been a source of insurrection within its walls, which is why this city was destroyed in the past.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We hereby inform the king that if this city is rebuilt and its walls restored, you will no longer have any claim or authority in this region west of the river.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king sent a reply to Rehum the royal official, to Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their associates living in Samaria, as well as to the others in the region beyond the Euphrates River: Greetings, and at this time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The letter you sent to us has been clearly read in my presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I issued a decree, and an investigation was conducted. It has been discovered that this city has a long history of rebelling against kings and that acts of revolt and rebellion have taken place within it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There have also been powerful kings who ruled over Jerusalem, governing all the regions beyond the Euphrates River. These kings received taxes, tribute, and duties from the people under their dominion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Issue a command immediately to stop these men from their work, and ensure that this city is not rebuilt until a further order is given by me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful now not to neglect this duty, for why should harm increase to the detriment of the king?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the copy of King Artaxerxes’ letter was read aloud to Rehum, Shimshai the scribe, and their associates, they quickly went up to Jerusalem to confront the Jews and forcibly compelled them to stop their work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The work on the house of God in Jerusalem came to a halt and remained stopped until the second year of the reign of Darius, king of Persia.</span></p>






</body></html>