<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nehemiah Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s1hsrx.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:79c23839-35e5-9bff-c726-c590fcd94c8a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nehemiah Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the twenty-fourth day of that month, the people of Israel gathered together. They fasted, wore sackcloth as a sign of mourning, and put dust on their heads to express their humility and repentance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Israel separated themselves from all foreigners, stood before God, and openly confessed their own sins and the wrongdoings of their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They took their positions and read from the book of the law of the LORD their God for one-fourth of the day. For another fourth of the day, they confessed their sins and worshiped the LORD their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Levites—Jeshua, Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani—stood on the stairs and called out in a loud voice to the LORD their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Levites—Jeshua, Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabniah, Sherebiah, Hodijah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah—said, “Rise and bless the LORD your God, from everlasting to everlasting. May your glorious name be praised, for it is exalted above all blessing and praise.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You alone are the LORD; you have created the heavens, even the highest heavens, with all their multitude, the earth and everything on it, the seas and all that is in them. You sustain all of them, and the heavenly hosts worship you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are the LORD, the God who chose Abram, brought him out of Ur of the Chaldeans, and gave him the name Abraham.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You found his heart faithful before You, and You made a covenant with him to give the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, and the Girgashites—to give it, I say, to his descendants. You have fulfilled Your promise, for You are righteous.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You witnessed the suffering of our ancestors in Egypt and heard their desperate cries by the Red Sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You displayed signs and wonders against Pharaoh, all his officials, and all the people of his land, for you knew they acted arrogantly against your people. In this way, you made a name for yourself that remains to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You parted the sea before them, allowing them to pass through the midst of the sea on dry ground. Then You cast their pursuers into the depths, like a stone sinking into the vast waters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, You guided them during the day with a pillar of cloud, and at night with a pillar of fire, to provide light for them on the path they were to follow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You descended upon Mount Sinai and spoke to them from heaven. You gave them just rulings, true laws, good statutes, and commandments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You made your holy Sabbath known to them and gave them commandments, decrees, and laws through Moses, your servant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You provided them with bread from heaven to satisfy their hunger and brought forth water from the rock to quench their thirst. You also promised them that they would enter and take possession of the land which you had sworn to give them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But they and our ancestors acted arrogantly, stubbornly refusing to listen, and they turned away from your commands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They refused to obey and paid no attention to the miracles you performed among them. Instead, they became stubborn and rebellious, even choosing a leader to take them back to their former slavery. Yet you are a God who forgives, gracious and compassionate, patient, abounding in faithful love, and you did not abandon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, when they made for themselves a cast metal calf and declared, "This is your god who brought you up out of Egypt," they committed great acts of rebellion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet, in your abundant compassion, you did not abandon them in the wilderness. The pillar of cloud did not cease to guide them by day, leading them on their journey, nor did the pillar of fire fail to shine by night, giving them light and showing them the path they were to follow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You also gave Your good Spirit to guide them, and You did not withhold Your manna from their mouths, providing them with water to quench their thirst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For forty years, you provided for them in the wilderness, and they lacked nothing. Their clothing did not wear out, and their feet did not swell.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, You granted them kingdoms and nations, and You allotted to them territories. Thus, they took possession of the land of Sihon, the land of the king of Heshbon, and the land of Og, the king of Bashan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You caused their children to increase in number like the stars of the sky, and you brought them into the land that you had promised to their ancestors, declaring that they would enter and take possession of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the Israelites entered and took possession of the land. You subdued the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, before them and delivered them into their hands, along with their kings and the people of the land, so that they could deal with them as they saw fit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They captured fortified cities and fertile land, taking possession of houses filled with every kind of good thing—wells already dug, vineyards, olive groves, and fruit trees in abundance. They ate and were satisfied; they grew prosperous and reveled in your abundant goodness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet they were defiant and rebelled against you, turning their backs on your law. They killed your prophets, who had warned them to return to you, and they committed terrible acts of provocation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you handed them over to their enemies, who oppressed them. Yet in their time of distress, when they cried out to you, you heard them from heaven. In your abundant compassion, you provided them with deliverers who rescued them from the power of their enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, after they experienced peace, they once again committed evil in your sight. As a result, you abandoned them to the power of their enemies, who ruled over them. Yet when they turned back to you and cried out for help, you listened to them from heaven, and in your great mercy, you rescued them time after time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You warned them and called them to account, intending to bring them back to your law. Yet they acted arrogantly and refused to listen to your commands. They sinned against your ordinances—those decrees by which a person lives if they obey them. They turned their backs stubbornly, stiffened their necks, and refused to listen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For many years you showed patience toward them and warned them through your Spirit, speaking by your prophets. Yet they refused to listen. As a result, you handed them over to the power of the surrounding nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, because of your abundant compassion, you did not completely destroy them or abandon them, for you are a gracious and merciful God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, our God—the great, mighty, and awe-inspiring God, who faithfully keeps His covenant and shows steadfast love—do not let all the hardship we have endured seem insignificant to You. This trouble has come upon us, our kings, our leaders, our priests, our prophets, our ancestors, and all Your people, from the time of the kings of Assyria until today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are indeed just in all that has come upon us, for you have acted rightly, but we have acted wickedly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our kings, our leaders, our priests, and our ancestors have not obeyed your law or paid attention to your commands and the warnings you gave them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They did not serve you during the time of their prosperity, despite the abundant goodness you had given them and the spacious, fertile land you provided for them. Nor did they turn away from their evil deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, today we are servants, and as for the land that you gave to our ancestors to enjoy its fruit and its goodness—here we are, serving as slaves upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our land produces abundant harvests for the kings you have placed over us because of our sins. They rule over us as they please, controlling our bodies and our livestock, and we are in deep distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of all this, we are making a binding agreement and putting it in writing. Our leaders, Levites, and priests are affixing their seals to it as a sign of their commitment.</span></p>






</body></html>