<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s1hx0z.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0eed0aaf-3046-a7f1-4989-572521031156" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the east gate of the Lord’s temple, which faces eastward. There, at the entrance of the gate, I saw twenty-five men, among whom I recognized Jaazaniah son of Azur and Pelatiah son of Benaiah, leaders of the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "Son of man, these are the men who plot evil and give harmful advice in this city."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They say, "The time of judgment is not near; let us build houses and settle down. This city is like a pot, and we are the meat inside it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, speak a prophetic message against them, deliver this prophecy, O mortal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Spirit of the LORD came upon me and said to me, "Speak. This is what the LORD says: You have spoken, O house of Israel, but I know every thought that arises in your mind."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have greatly increased the number of those killed in this city, and you have filled its streets with the dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: The slain whom you have placed within it—they are the meat, and this city is the pot. But I will bring you out from the midst of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have been afraid of the sword, and now I will bring the sword against you, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring you out from among them and hand you over to foreigners, and I will carry out judgments against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will perish by the sword; I will execute judgment against you at the borders of Israel, and you will come to understand that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This city will not serve as your cooking pot, nor will you be the meat within it. Instead, I will judge you at the borders of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will come to understand that I am the LORD, because you have not followed my decrees or carried out my judgments. Instead, you have acted according to the ways of the nations surrounding you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As I was prophesying, Pelatiah, the son of Benaiah, died. Then I fell facedown and cried out in a loud voice, saying, "Oh, Lord GOD! Will you completely destroy what remains of Israel?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, your relatives—your own family, the people of your lineage, and the entire house of Israel—are the ones to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, 'Stay away from the LORD; this land has been given to us as our possession.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, declare this message from the Lord GOD: Even though I have exiled them far away among the nations and scattered them across many lands, I will still be a place of refuge for them in the countries where they have been dispersed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, declare this message from the Lord GOD: I will gather you from among the nations and bring you together from the lands where you have been scattered. I will give you the land of Israel as your possession.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will go there and remove all its detestable things and all its abominations from that place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will give them a unified heart, and I will place a new spirit within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their body and give them a heart of flesh instead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that they may live according to my laws, observe my decrees, and carry them out. Then they will truly be my people, and I will be their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, for those whose hearts are devoted to their detestable idols and abominations, I will bring the consequences of their actions upon their own heads, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the cherubim lifted their wings, and the wheels beside them rose as well; and the glorious presence of the God of Israel rested above them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The radiant presence of the LORD ascended from the center of the city and came to rest on the mountain located to the east of the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, the Spirit lifted me up and carried me in a vision by the Spirit of God to Chaldea, to those who were in exile. Then the vision I had seen departed from me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I spoke to the exiles about all the things that the LORD had revealed to me.</span></p>






</body></html>