<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s1kowz.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e5ddde92-c8a2-b89c-31b5-8ea3f96c6c56" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the four hundred and eightieth year after the Israelites had left the land of Egypt, during the fourth year of Solomon’s reign over Israel, in the month of Ziv (which is the second month), he began to construct the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The temple that King Solomon built for the LORD was 60 cubits long, 20 cubits wide, and 30 cubits high.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The porch in front of the main hall of the temple was twenty cubits long, matching the width of the temple itself, and it extended ten cubits in depth from the front of the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the house, he made windows with narrow openings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed rooms along the walls of the house, surrounding both the main sanctuary and the inner sanctuary. These chambers were built all around the structure, encircling the temple on every side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The lowest level of the structure was five cubits wide, the middle level was six cubits wide, and the top level was seven cubits wide. This was because the outer walls of the house were designed with recessed supports all around, so that the beams would not be anchored directly into the walls of the house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the house was being constructed, it was built with stone that had been prepared at the quarry before being brought to the site. As a result, no sound of hammers, axes, or any iron tools was heard in the house while it was being built.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entrance to the middle chamber was on the right side of the building. They ascended to it by means of a winding staircase, leading from the middle chamber up to the third.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he constructed the house and completed it, then he covered the house with beams and planks of cedar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he constructed side chambers along the entire house, each five cubits high, and they were attached to the house with cedar timbers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Solomon, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding this temple that you are building, if you walk in obedience to my statutes, carry out my ordinances, and faithfully keep all my commandments by living according to them, then I will fulfill the promise I made to your father David concerning you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will live among the people of Israel and will never abandon my people, Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Solomon constructed the house and completed it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed the interior walls of the house with cedar panels, covering both the floor and the ceiling. He overlaid the inside with wood and finished the floor of the house with planks of fir.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed a section twenty cubits long on the sides of the house, covering both the floor and the walls with cedar boards. He built this inner structure within the house, specifically for the inner sanctuary, the Most Holy Place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The house, that is, the main hall of the temple in front of the sanctuary, was forty cubits long.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The interior of the house was paneled with cedar, adorned with carvings of gourds and open flowers. Every part was cedar; no stone was visible.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He prepared the inner sanctuary within the house to place there the ark of the covenant of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The inner sanctuary at the front was twenty cubits long, twenty cubits wide, and twenty cubits high. He overlaid it with pure gold and also covered the altar, which was made of cedar, with gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Solomon covered the interior of the temple with pure gold. He also constructed a barrier using gold chains in front of the Most Holy Place and overlaid it with gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He covered the entire interior of the temple with gold, completing every part of it. He also overlaid the entire altar that stood before the inner sanctuary with gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Inside the inner sanctuary, he crafted two cherubim out of olive wood, each standing ten cubits tall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each wing of the cherub measured five cubits in length, so that from the tip of one wing to the tip of the other wing, the total span was ten cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The other cherub also measured ten cubits. Both cherubim were of the same dimensions and identical in size.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The height of one cherub was ten cubits, and the other cherub was the same height.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He placed the cherubim inside the innermost room of the temple. The cherubim stretched out their wings so that the wing of one cherub touched one wall, and the wing of the other cherub touched the opposite wall. In the middle of the room, their wings met and touched each other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He covered the cherubim with gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He adorned all the walls of the temple, both inside and out, with intricate carvings of cherubim, palm trees, and blooming flowers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He covered the floor of the house with gold, both on the inside and the outside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the entrance to the inner sanctuary, he made doors out of olive wood. The lintel and doorposts were one-fifth of the width of the wall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The two doors were also made of olive wood. He carved into them figures of cherubim, palm trees, and blooming flowers, then overlaid them with gold. He carefully applied gold to the cherubim and the palm trees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also made doorposts for the entrance of the temple out of olive wood, each one a fourth of the width of the wall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The two doors were made of fir wood. Each door had two folding panels, so that both doors could open and close in this manner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He engraved cherubim, palm trees, and blooming flowers on it, then overlaid them with gold, carefully applied to the engraved design.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed the inner courtyard with three layers of cut stone and one layer of cedar beams.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fourth year, during the month of Ziv, the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eleventh year, during the month of Bul (which is the eighth month), the temple was fully completed in every detail and according to its entire design. Solomon spent seven years constructing it.</span></p>






</body></html>