<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 37</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s258ah.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b74786ed-aa42-e41d-45ad-256d324ab85a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 37</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When King Hezekiah heard this, he tore his clothes, put on sackcloth, and went into the temple of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He sent Eliakim, who was in charge of the palace, along with Shebna the secretary and the senior priests, all dressed in sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to him, "This is what Hezekiah says: Today is a day of distress, of rebuke, and of disgrace. The situation is like a woman in labor, ready to give birth, but she lacks the strength to deliver the child."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Perhaps the Lord your God will take notice of the words of Rabshakeh, whom the king of Assyria, his master, has sent to insult the living God, and will rebuke the words that the Lord your God has heard. Therefore, offer up your prayer for the remnant that remains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the officials of King Hezekiah went to Isaiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Isaiah said to them, "This is what you must say to your master: 'This is what the LORD says: Do not be afraid of the words you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have insulted me.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, I will send a powerful wind against him, and he will hear alarming news that will compel him to return to his own country. There, I will ensure that he meets his end by the sword in his own land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Rabshakeh went back and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah, for he had heard that the king had left Lachish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he received news concerning Tirhakah, the king of Ethiopia, that he had come out to wage war against him. Upon hearing this, he sent messengers to Hezekiah with this message:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what you shall say to Hezekiah, king of Judah: Do not let your God, in whom you place your trust, mislead you by saying, "Jerusalem will not be handed over to the king of Assyria."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, you have heard how the kings of Assyria have completely devastated all the nations they have conquered. Do you really think you will be spared?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have the gods of the nations rescued those whom my ancestors destroyed—Gozan, Haran, Rezeph, and the people of Eden who lived in Telassar?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivvah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah took the letter from the messengers and read it. Then he went up to the house of the LORD and laid it out before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Hezekiah prayed to the LORD, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD of armies, God of Israel, who is enthroned above the cherubim, you alone are God over all the kingdoms of the earth. You created the heavens and the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen closely, O LORD, and hear; open your eyes, O LORD, and observe. Pay attention to all the words of Sennacherib, who has sent messengers to insult the living God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Truly, LORD, the kings of Assyria have utterly destroyed all the nations and their lands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have thrown their so-called gods into the fire, for they were not truly gods at all—merely the work of human hands, crafted from wood and stone. That is why they have utterly destroyed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, O LORD our God, deliver us from his power, so that all the kingdoms of the earth may recognize that you alone are the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Isaiah, the son of Amoz, sent a message to Hezekiah, saying, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: Because you have prayed to me concerning Sennacherib, the king of Assyria..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message the LORD has spoken concerning him: The virgin daughter of Zion holds you in contempt and mocks you; the daughter of Jerusalem shakes her head in derision at you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whom have you insulted and spoken against? Against whom have you raised your voice and arrogantly lifted your eyes? It is against the Holy One of Israel!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through your messengers, you have insulted the Lord, and you have boasted, "With my vast number of chariots, I have ascended to the heights of the mountains, to the remote slopes of Lebanon. I will cut down its tallest cedars and its finest fir trees. I will advance to its highest peaks, to its most fertile forests."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have dug wells and drunk their water; with the soles of my feet, I have dried up all the streams of the fortified cities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have you not heard from long ago how I have accomplished this, and from ancient times that I have planned it? Now I have brought it to pass, so that you might reduce fortified cities to crumbling ruins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, the people who lived there were weak and powerless, overwhelmed with fear and confusion. They were like the grass in the fields, like tender green plants, like grass growing on rooftops that withers before it can take root, or like grain scorched by the wind before it has a chance to mature.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I am fully aware of where you dwell, your comings and goings, and your fierce anger directed against me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because your rage against me and your uproar have reached my ears, I will put a hook in your nose and a bit in your mouth, and I will turn you back on the path by which you came.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This will be a sign for you: In the coming year, you will eat what grows on its own. In the second year, you will eat what springs up from that. But in the third year, you will sow, reap, plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The surviving remnant of the house of Judah will once again take deep root below and produce abundant fruit above.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A remnant will come out of Jerusalem, and survivors will emerge from Mount Zion. The passionate commitment of the LORD of hosts will accomplish this.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says concerning the king of Assyria: He will not enter this city, nor will he shoot an arrow into it. He will not advance against it with shields, nor will he build siege ramps to attack it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares: "By the same path he came, he will return, and he will not enter this city."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will protect this city and deliver it, both for my own honor and for the sake of my servant David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the angel of the Lord went out and struck down 185,000 men in the Assyrian camp. When the people got up early the next morning, they found all the bodies—every one of them was dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, left and went back, returning to dwell in Nineveh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened that while he was worshiping in the temple of his god Nisroch, his sons Adrammelech and Sharezer attacked him with the sword and killed him. They then fled to the land of Ararat, and his son Esar-haddon became king in his place.</span></p>






</body></html>