<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s27eqy.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:27dcc414-4ac9-024f-f9b6-b06d09f82bae" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message of the LORD came to me once more, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why do you repeat this proverb about the land of Israel, saying, "The parents have eaten sour grapes, but it is the children's teeth that are set on edge"?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign LORD, you will no longer have any reason to repeat this saying in Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: every life belongs to me—both the life of the father and the life of the son are mine. The person who sins is the one who will die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if a person is righteous and does what is just and right,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has not eaten meals on the high places, nor has he looked to the idols of the house of Israel for guidance or worship. He has not defiled his neighbor’s wife, nor has he approached a woman during her menstrual period.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has not oppressed anyone, but has returned to the debtor what was pledged as security. He has not taken anything by force or violence, has given his food to the hungry, and has provided clothing to cover the naked.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person who has not lent money at interest nor accepted any profit from it, who has kept their hand from wrongdoing and has carried out true justice between one person and another—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone has walked in my statutes and kept my ordinances, acting with integrity—that person is righteous and will surely live, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If he fathers a son who becomes a violent man, a murderer, and does any of these evil things,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if someone does not fulfill these obligations, but instead has eaten meals on the high places (a reference to idolatrous practices) and has committed adultery with his neighbor’s wife,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has oppressed the poor and needy, seized goods by force, failed to return what was pledged as security, raised his eyes to idols, and committed detestable acts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone has lent money at interest and taken profit from it, will they live? No, they will not live. They have committed all these detestable acts; they will certainly die. Their guilt will remain on them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, consider this: if a man has a son who sees all the sins his father has committed, reflects on them, and chooses not to follow in his father’s ways,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has not eaten sacrifices on the mountains, nor has he looked to the idols of the house of Israel for worship. He has not defiled his neighbor’s wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has not oppressed anyone, nor has he kept a pledge as security. He has not committed robbery or violence, but has given his bread to the hungry and provided clothing to cover the naked.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who has refrained from oppressing the poor, who has not accepted interest or unjust gain, who has carried out my judgments and walked in my statutes—that person will not die for the guilt of their father; they will surely live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning his father, because he acted with cruel oppression, violently robbed his brother, and committed what was evil among his people, behold, he will indeed die for his iniquity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet you ask, "Why does the son not bear the guilt of the father?" When the son does what is just and right, and carefully observes all my statutes, putting them into practice, he will certainly live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person who sins will die. A son will not be held accountable for the guilt of his father, nor will a father be held accountable for the guilt of his son. The righteousness of the righteous will belong to them alone, and the wickedness of the wicked will rest on them alone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the wicked person turns away from all the sins they have committed, and observes all my decrees, and does what is just and right, they will certainly live; they will not die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the wrongs he has committed will not be held against him. Because of the righteous acts he has done, he will live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Do I take any pleasure in the death of the wicked?" declares the Lord GOD. "Is it not rather that they should turn from their ways and live?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if a righteous person turns away from their righteousness and commits evil, doing the same detestable things that the wicked do, will they live? None of the righteous acts they have done will be remembered. Because of their unfaithfulness and the sins they have committed, they will die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet you say, “The Lord’s way is not fair.” Listen now, O house of Israel: Is it not my way that is fair? Are not your ways the ones that are unfair?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When a righteous person turns away from their righteousness and commits sin, and then dies in that state, they will die because of the sin they have committed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, when a wicked person turns away from the wickedness they have committed and does what is just and right, they will preserve their life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because he reflects on his actions and turns away from all the wrongs he has committed, he will certainly live; he will not die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet the house of Israel says, "The way of the Lord is not fair." O house of Israel, is it not my ways that are fair? Are not your ways the ones that are unfair?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will judge you, O house of Israel, each one according to their ways, declares the Lord GOD. Turn back and abandon all your wrongdoing, so that your sin will not bring about your downfall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Turn away from all your sins, by which you have rebelled against God, and create within yourselves a new heart and a renewed spirit. Why should you face destruction, O people of Israel?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I take no delight in the death of anyone who dies, declares the Lord GOD. Therefore, turn back from your ways and live.</span></p>






</body></html>