<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s28paa.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e28e9e06-ded9-aadd-f15b-6da3748bca84" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Go and acquire a clay jar from a potter, and gather some of the elders of the people and some of the elders of the priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go out to the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, which is near the entrance of the East Gate, and announce there the words that I will tell you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to the word of the LORD, you kings of Judah and residents of Jerusalem. This is what the LORD of Hosts, the God of Israel, declares: I am about to bring disaster upon this place, and when anyone hears of it, their ears will ring with the news.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they have abandoned me and defiled this sacred place by burning incense here to other gods—gods that neither they, their ancestors, nor the kings of Judah ever knew—and because they have filled this place with the blood of innocent people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have also constructed the high places dedicated to Baal, where they burn their children in fire as offerings to Baal—a practice I never commanded, nor even mentioned, nor did such a thing ever enter my thoughts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully—the days are coming, declares the LORD, when this place will no longer be called Tophet or the Valley of Ben Hinnom, but the Valley of Slaughter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will nullify the plans and strategies of Judah and Jerusalem in this place. I will cause them to fall by the sword before their enemies and at the hands of those who seek to take their lives. Their dead bodies I will give as food for the birds of the sky and the wild animals of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will make this city a desolate wasteland, an object of scorn and derision. Everyone who passes by will be appalled and will mock it because of all the disasters that have come upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will make them eat the flesh of their sons and the flesh of their daughters, and each one will eat the flesh of their friends during the siege and desperate distress brought upon them by their enemies and those who seek to take their lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall smash the jar in the presence of the men who accompany you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019419"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you shall say to them, "This is what the LORD of hosts declares: Just as one shatters a potter's jar so that it cannot be repaired, so will I shatter this people and this city. They will bury the dead in Tophet until there is no more room left to bury them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019420"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what I will do to this place, declares the LORD, and to those who live in it—I will make this city like Topheth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019421"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The houses of Jerusalem and the houses of the kings of Judah will become as unclean as the place of Tophet, because on the roofs of these houses they have burned incense to the heavenly hosts and poured out drink offerings to other gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeremiah returned from Tophet, where the LORD had sent him to deliver a prophecy. He stood in the courtyard of the LORD’s temple and declared to all the people:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Listen carefully, I am about to bring upon this city and all its surrounding towns every disaster I have announced against it, because they have stubbornly refused to obey and have hardened their hearts, refusing to listen to my words.</span></p>






</body></html>