<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s28q31.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:73b1b8e9-65f1-1288-557a-d7790bb2441e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then we turned and took the road leading to Bashan. Og, the king of Bashan, came out to confront us, along with all his forces, to engage in battle at Edrei.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "Do not fear him, for I will hand him over to you, along with all his people and his land. You will deal with him just as you dealt with Sihon, the king of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the LORD our God handed over to us Og, the king of Bashan, and all his people. We struck them down until no one remained alive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, we captured all his cities—there was not a single city we did not take from them. We seized sixty cities in total, encompassing the entire region of Argob, which was part of the kingdom of Og in Bashan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All these cities were fortified with high walls, gates, and bars; in addition, there were a great many towns without walls.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We completely annihilated them, just as we had done to Sihon, the king of Heshbon, leaving no survivors. In every city, we destroyed everyone—men, women, and children—without exception.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, all the livestock and the plunder from the cities we kept as spoils for ourselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, we captured the land from the two Amorite kings on the eastern side of the Jordan River, from the Arnon River all the way to Mount Hermon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Sidonians refer to this mountain as Sirion, while the Amorites call it Shenir.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the cities of the plain, along with the entire region of Gilead and all of Bashan, extending as far as Salchah and Edrei—these were the cities of Og’s kingdom in Bashan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Of all the remnants of the Rephaim (giants), only Og, the king of Bashan, remained. His bed was made of iron and can still be found in Rabbah, a city of the Ammonites. It measures nine cubits in length and four cubits in width, using the standard cubit of a man.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, I gave this land—from Aroer, which lies by the Arnon River, and half of the hill country of Gilead, along with its cities—to the tribes of Reuben and Gad.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the remaining portion of Gilead, along with all of Bashan, which was the kingdom of Og, I gave to the half-tribe of Manasseh. This included the entire region of Argob, encompassing all of Bashan, which was known as the land of the Rephaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jair, the son of Manasseh, captured the entire region of Argob, extending as far as the borders of Geshur and Maacah. He named these territories after himself, calling them Havvoth-jair, a name they retain to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I assigned Gilead to Machir.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the Reubenites and the Gadites, I granted the territory from Gilead as far as the Arnon River, including half of the valley, with the boundary extending to the Jabbok River, which marks the border of the Ammonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The plain, along with the Jordan River and its surrounding region, extending from Chinnereth all the way to the Sea of the Arabah, which is the Salt Sea, lies below the slopes of Pisgah to the east.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, I gave you this command: "The LORD your God has given you this land to take possession of it. You must cross over, fully armed, ahead of your fellow Israelites, all who are fit for battle."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, your wives, your children, and your livestock (for I know you have many animals) must remain in the cities I have given to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wait until the LORD grants rest to your fellow Israelites, just as he has given rest to you, and until they too take possession of the land that the LORD your God has given them on the other side of the Jordan. Only then may each of you return to the inheritance I have given you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, I instructed Joshua, saying, "Your own eyes have witnessed all that the LORD your God has done to these two kings. In the same way, the LORD will deal with all the kingdoms through which you are about to pass."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be afraid of them, for the LORD your God will fight on your behalf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I pleaded with the LORD at that time, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Lord God, you have begun to reveal to your servant your greatness and your mighty power. For what god in heaven or on earth can perform deeds like yours or match your strength?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I ask you, please allow me to cross over and see the good land that lies beyond the Jordan, that beautiful hill country, and Lebanon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the LORD was angry with me because of you, and He refused to listen to me. The LORD said to me, "That is enough; do not speak to me again about this matter."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go up to the summit of Pisgah, and look out to the west, the north, the south, and the east. Take in the sight with your own eyes, for you will not cross over this Jordan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you must commission Joshua, encourage him, and fortify his resolve, for he will lead this people across, and he will enable them to take possession of the land that you will see.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So we stayed in the valley near Beth-peor.</span></p>






</body></html>