<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Hosea Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s29zqn.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:44f84d2c-c872-563c-0419-33566b4a33b7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Hosea Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Israel is like a vine that bears no fruit for others, producing only for itself. As its harvest increased, so did its altars; as its land prospered, so did its idols, crafted into splendid images.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their loyalty is divided; now they will be held guilty. He will demolish their altars and destroy their sacred images.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now they will say, "We have no king, because we did not fear the LORD. So what could a king do for us?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have spoken deceitful words, making false oaths when forming agreements. As a result, justice grows like poisonous hemlock in the plowed rows of a field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Samaria will tremble because of the idolatrous calves of Beth-aven. The inhabitants will mourn over it, and the priests who once rejoiced in its glory will grieve, for its splendor has been taken away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It will also be taken to Assyria as a tribute to the great king. Ephraim will be disgraced, and Israel will be put to shame because of their own plans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning Samaria, its king has been utterly destroyed, vanishing like foam upon the surface of the water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sacred high places of Aven, which symbolize Israel's sin, will be utterly destroyed. Thorns and thistles will overgrow their altars. In their despair, the people will cry out to the mountains, "Cover us!" and to the hills, "Fall on us and hide us!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Israel, you have been sinning since the days of Gibeah. There they took their stand, but the battle in Gibeah against the wicked did not overcome them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It is my intention to discipline them, and the nations will be assembled against them when they tie themselves to their double rebellion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ephraim is like a well-trained heifer that enjoys threshing grain, but I will place a yoke upon her fair neck. I will harness Ephraim to labor; Judah will plow, and Jacob will break up the hard ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Plant seeds of righteousness within yourselves, and you will harvest the fruit of steadfast love. Prepare your hearts, like breaking up unplowed soil, for now is the time to seek the LORD, until he comes and pours down righteousness upon you like rain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have plowed wickedness, you have harvested injustice; you have consumed the fruit of deceit. This is because you relied on your own ways and placed your trust in the strength of your many warriors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, chaos will erupt among your people, and all your strongholds will be plundered, just as Shalman devastated Beth-arbel in the day of battle—when mothers were brutally crushed alongside their children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, Bethel will deal with you because of your great evil. In the morning, the king of Israel will be completely destroyed.</span></p>






</body></html>