<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 26</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2agjk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f1a6aafc-8aac-1835-f91b-ce4d797cf610" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 26</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, you are to construct the tabernacle with ten curtains made of finely twisted linen, in colors of blue, purple, and scarlet. You shall skillfully weave cherubim into the design of these curtains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits in length and four cubits in width. All the curtains shall be of the same size.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The five curtains shall be joined together, one to the next, and the other five curtains shall also be joined together, one to the next.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make loops of blue yarn on the edge of the first curtain, at the very end where it is to be joined; and you shall do the same on the outermost edge of the second curtain, where it is to be connected.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make fifty loops on the edge of the first curtain, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that joins the second set, so that the loops may correspond to one another and be fastened together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make fifty gold clasps and use them to join the curtains together, so that the tabernacle will form one unified structure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall create curtains from goats' hair to serve as a covering over the tabernacle. You are to make eleven such curtains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each curtain shall be thirty cubits in length and four cubits in width. All eleven curtains shall be of the same size.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall join five curtains together as one set, and the other six curtains together as a separate set. Then you shall fold the sixth curtain double at the front of the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make fifty loops along the edge of the outermost curtain in the first set, and fifty loops along the edge of the curtain that joins the second set.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make fifty clasps of bronze, and insert the clasps into the loops to join the tent together so that it becomes one unified structure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining portion of the tent curtains—specifically the leftover half-curtain—shall be draped over the rear side of the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining length of the tent curtains, measuring one cubit on one side and one cubit on the other side, shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle, covering it on both sides.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make a covering for the tent out of rams' skins dyed red, and place a protective covering over it made of fine leather.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall construct frames for the tabernacle out of acacia wood, standing upright.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each board shall be ten cubits in length and one and a half cubits in width.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each board for the tabernacle shall have two matching pegs, aligned opposite each other. You are to construct all the boards of the tabernacle in this manner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002254"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall construct the frames for the tabernacle, with twenty frames on the southern side, facing southward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002255"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make forty silver bases to go beneath the twenty frames—two bases under each frame to hold its two projections, and two bases under the next frame for its two projections.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002256"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, there shall be twenty boards.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002257"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were forty silver bases, with two bases supporting each panel and two bases supporting the next panel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002258"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the western side of the tabernacle, you shall construct six frames.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002259"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make two additional boards for the corners of the tabernacle on the two sides.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002260"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The two pieces shall be joined together at the bottom and also at the top, connecting to a single ring. This is how both pieces shall be made; they will serve as the two corners.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002261"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There shall be eight boards, each with two silver bases—sixteen bases in total. Two bases will support one board, and two bases will support another board.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002262"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make bars of acacia wood; five for the frames on one side of the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002263"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And make five crossbars for the frames on the other side of the tabernacle, and five crossbars for the frames on the far side of the tabernacle, facing westward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002264"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The central crossbar, positioned halfway up the boards, must extend from one end of the structure to the other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002265"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall cover the boards with gold and make gold rings to hold the crossbars; you shall also cover the crossbars with gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002266"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to set up the tabernacle according to the design that was shown to you on the mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002267"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make a veil of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and finely woven linen, skillfully crafted with cherubim worked into it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall hang it on four pillars made of acacia wood, overlaid with gold. Their hooks shall also be made of gold, and they shall rest on four bases of silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall hang the curtain beneath the clasps, so that you may bring the ark of the testimony inside, behind the curtain. The curtain will serve as a divider for you between the holy place and the most holy place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall place the atonement cover on top of the ark of the covenant in the Most Holy Place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to place the table outside the curtain, and the lampstand opposite the table on the south side of the tabernacle. The table itself should be positioned on the north side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make a curtain for the entrance of the tent, crafted from blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and finely woven linen, skillfully embroidered with needlework.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall construct five pillars of acacia wood for the screen, overlay them with gold, and make their hooks of gold as well. You shall also cast five bases of bronze to support them.</span></p>






</body></html>