<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 55</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2bnsv.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7849261c-f6dd-3f01-e1de-ac26af2e00a9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 55</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, all who are thirsty! Come to the waters, and you who have no money—come, buy, and eat! Yes, come and purchase wine and milk without cost or payment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why do you spend your money on what does not truly nourish you, and labor for what fails to satisfy? Listen carefully to me, and partake of what is good, so that your soul may delight in abundance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen closely and come to me; pay attention, and your soul will find life. I will establish with you an everlasting covenant, the faithful and enduring promises I made to David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, I have appointed him as a witness to the nations, a guide and a ruler for the people. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: You will summon a nation you do not know, and nations that do not know you will come running to you. This will happen because of the LORD your God, and because of the Holy One of Israel, for He has honored you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Seek the LORD while He is accessible; call upon Him while He is near.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let the wicked abandon their sinful ways, and the unrighteous person their harmful thoughts. Let them turn back to the LORD, and He will show them mercy; let them return to our God, for He will freely and generously forgive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For my thoughts are not like your thoughts, nor are your ways like my ways, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as the heavens are far above the earth, so are my ways far beyond your ways, and my thoughts far beyond your thoughts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For just as the rain and snow descend from the heavens and do not return there without first watering the earth, causing it to produce and sprout, providing seed for the one who sows and bread for the one who eats:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is how my word will be when it goes out from my mouth: it will not return to me empty, but it will achieve the purpose for which I sent it and succeed in what I intended it to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will go out with joy and be guided forward in peace. The mountains and hills will burst into song before you, and all the trees of the field will applaud with their branches.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instead of thornbushes, fir trees will grow, and instead of briers, myrtle trees will rise. This will stand as a testimony to the LORD, an enduring sign that will never be destroyed.</span></p>






</body></html>