<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2bugo.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f6efdfa7-826f-aa22-b1fc-4ae7a10e144c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, the sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel (for he was indeed the firstborn, but because he defiled his father’s bed, his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph, the son of Israel). However, the genealogy is not to be recorded according to the birthright.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah surpassed his brothers in prominence, and from him came the foremost leader; however, the birthright belonged to Joseph.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel, were Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Joel are as follows: Shemaiah, his son; Gog, his son; and Shimei, his son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Micah was his son, Reaiah was his son, and Baal was his son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Beerah, his son, whom Tilgath-pilneser, king of Assyria, took captive, was the leader of the Reubenites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his relatives, according to their family lines, when their genealogical records were traced, were the leaders: Jeiel and Zechariah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Bela, the son of Azaz, who was the son of Shema, who was the son of Joel, lived in the region stretching from Aroer all the way to Nebo and Baal-meon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He settled eastward, extending to the edge of the wilderness that stretches from the Euphrates River, for their livestock had greatly increased in the land of Gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the time of Saul, they waged war against the Hagarites, who were defeated by their forces. Afterward, they settled in the tents of the Hagarites throughout the entire eastern region of Gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Gad settled opposite them, in the territory of Bashan, extending as far as Salchah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joel was the leader, followed by Shapham, then Jaanai, and Shaphat in Bashan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And their relatives from their ancestral families were Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jachan, Zia, and Heber—seven in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the descendants of Abihail, son of Huri, son of Jaroah, son of Gilead, son of Michael, son of Jeshishai, son of Jahdo, son of Buz.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahi, the son of Abdiel, who was the son of Guni, was the leader of his ancestral family.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They settled in Gilead, in Bashan, and in its surrounding towns, as well as in all the pasturelands of Sharon, within their territorial boundaries.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All these individuals were recorded in genealogical records during the reign of Jotham, king of Judah, and during the reign of Jeroboam, king of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Reuben, the Gadites, and half the tribe of Manasseh—men of great courage, skilled in handling shield and sword, proficient with the bow, and trained in warfare—numbered forty-four thousand seven hundred and sixty. These were the warriors who went out to battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They engaged in battle against the Hagarites, as well as against Jetur, Nephish, and Nodab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They received divine assistance against their enemies, and the Hagarites were handed over to them, along with all who were allied with them. This happened because they cried out to God during the battle, and He responded to their plea, for they had placed their trust in Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They seized their livestock: fifty thousand camels, two hundred and fifty thousand sheep, two thousand donkeys, and one hundred thousand people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many were struck down and killed because the battle was directed by God. They then settled in their place and remained there until the time of the exile.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of the half-tribe of Manasseh settled in the land, and their population grew. They spread out from Bashan all the way to Baal-hermon, Senir, and Mount Hermon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These were the leaders of their ancestral families: Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah, and Jahdiel. They were courageous warriors, renowned men, and heads of their ancestral households.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They turned away from the God of their ancestors and were unfaithful to Him, pursuing the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God had destroyed before them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The God of Israel roused the spirit of Pul, king of Assyria, and the spirit of Tilgath-pilneser, king of Assyria, and they deported the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. They took them to Halah, Habor, Hara, and the river Gozan, where they remain to this day.</span></p>






</body></html>