<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2fy89.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9c5d880c-440d-b0e6-d744-0ae1a3c7a985" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul had been king for one year, and after he had ruled over Israel for two years,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul selected three thousand men from Israel: two thousand remained with him at Michmash and in the hill country of Bethel, while one thousand were under Jonathan’s command in Gibeah of Benjamin. The rest of the people Saul sent back, each to their own home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan attacked and defeated the Philistine garrison stationed at Geba, and news of this reached the Philistines. In response, Saul had the trumpet sounded throughout the entire land, proclaiming, "Let all the Hebrews hear of this!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire nation of Israel heard the news that Saul had attacked and defeated a Philistine garrison, and as a result, the Philistines now regarded Israel with intense hatred. In response, the people rallied behind Saul and gathered together at Gilgal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines assembled their forces to wage war against Israel, bringing with them thirty thousand chariots, six thousand horsemen, and an army as numerous as the grains of sand on the seashore. They advanced and set up their camp at Michmash, to the east of Beth-aven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the men of Israel realized they were in a desperate situation—for the people were deeply troubled—they hid themselves in caves, thickets, rocky crevices, high places, and pits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of the Hebrews crossed over the Jordan River into the territory of Gad and Gilead. Meanwhile, Saul remained in Gilgal, and all the people who were with him were filled with fear and anxiety.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul waited seven days, as Samuel had instructed, but Samuel did not arrive at Gilgal. As a result, the people began to disperse and leave Saul’s side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul then said, "Bring me the burnt offering and the fellowship offerings." So he presented the burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As soon as Saul finished presenting the burnt offering, Samuel arrived. Saul went out to greet him, intending to pay his respects.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel asked, "What have you done?" Saul replied, "I saw that the people were abandoning me, and you did not come within the appointed time, while the Philistines were assembling at Michmash."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I thought to myself, "The Philistines will surely come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not yet sought the LORD's favor." So, feeling compelled, I took it upon myself to offer a burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel said to Saul, "You have acted foolishly. You have not kept the command of the LORD your God, which He gave you. If you had obeyed, the LORD would have established your kingdom over Israel forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But now your kingdom will not endure. The LORD has sought out a man who aligns with His own heart, and the LORD has appointed him to be leader over His people, because you have not obeyed what the LORD commanded you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel then got up and went from Gilgal to Gibeah in the territory of Benjamin. Saul counted the men who were with him, and they numbered about six hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul, along with his son Jonathan and the people who were with them, remained in Gibeah, which is in the territory of Benjamin. Meanwhile, the Philistines had set up their camp at Michmash.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then raiding parties came out from the Philistine camp, dividing into three groups. One group turned toward the road leading to Ophrah, in the direction of the land of Shual.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Another group took the road toward Beth-horon, while a different group headed in the direction of the border that overlooks the valley of Zeboim, facing the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, there were no blacksmiths to be found anywhere in the land of Israel, because the Philistines had declared, "We must prevent the Hebrews from making swords or spears."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, all the Israelites would go down to the Philistines to have each man’s plowshare, his mattock, his axe, and his sickle sharpened.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet they had a file for sharpening their hoes, plowshares, pitchforks, axes, and goads.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So it happened that on the day of battle, no sword or spear could be found in the hands of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan. However, Saul and his son Jonathan were the only ones who had them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistine military outpost advanced to the pass at Michmash.</span></p>






</body></html>