<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Hebrews Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2gyzz.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7dd9b9a7-6926-0d0a-bedd-6787995e424b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Hebrews Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a vast multitude of witnesses, let us cast off every burden and the sin that so easily entangles us, and let us run with endurance the race that lies ahead of us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Fix your eyes on Jesus, the one who initiates and perfects our faith. For the joy that lay ahead of him, he endured the cross, disregarding its shame, and now sits at the right hand of the throne of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Think carefully about Jesus, who endured such hostility and opposition from sinful people, so that you do not grow weary and lose heart in your faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have not yet endured to the point of shedding your blood in your struggle against sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have forgotten the encouragement that addresses you as children: "My child, do not disregard the Lord's discipline, nor lose heart when He corrects you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For those whom the Lord loves, he disciplines, and he corrects every child whom he accepts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you endure discipline, God is treating you as his children. For what child is there whom a father does not discipline?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you are without discipline, which all experience, then you are illegitimate children and not true sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moreover, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us, and we respected them. Should we not then all the more submit to the Father of our spirits and live?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For indeed, they disciplined us for a short time as they saw fit, but God does so for our benefit, so that we may share in his holiness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the time, no discipline seems pleasant, but rather painful. Yet afterward, it produces a harvest of peace and righteousness for those who have been trained by it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, strengthen the hands that are weak and the knees that are feeble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ensure that your way of life is upright and straightforward, so that those who are weak or struggling do not stumble and fall away from the right path. Instead, encourage their healing and restoration.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Strive to live in peace with everyone, and pursue holiness, for without it no one will see the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be watchful and careful, so that no one falls short of God’s grace, and so that no bitter root grows up to cause trouble and defile many.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful that no one among you becomes sexually immoral or godless, like Esau, who traded his birthright for a single meal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no opportunity to change his father's mind, even though he sought it earnestly with tears.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you have not come to a mountain that can be touched, a mountain blazing with fire, nor to gloom, darkness, and storm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And there was the sound of a trumpet and the voice speaking words. Those who heard it begged that no further word be spoken to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they could not bear what was commanded: "If even an animal touches the mountain, it must be stoned or pierced with a spear."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sight was so terrifying that Moses said, "I am utterly filled with fear and trembling."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you have come to Mount Zion, to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to countless multitudes of angels,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the universal gathering and community of those who are God’s firstborn, whose names are recorded in heaven, and to God, the Judge of all, and to the spirits of righteous people who have been made complete and perfect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood, which proclaims a more powerful message than the blood of Abel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful not to reject the one who is speaking to you. For if those who refused to listen to the one who spoke on earth did not escape punishment, how much more will we not escape if we turn away from the one who speaks from heaven?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, His voice shook the earth, but now He has promised, saying, "Once more I will shake not only the earth but also the heavens."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The phrase, "Yet once more," signifies the removal of things that can be shaken—things that have been created—so that what cannot be shaken may endure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us hold on to grace, so that we may serve God in a way that pleases Him, with reverence and awe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For our God is a blazing fire, all-consuming in His power and holiness.</span></p>






</body></html>