<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Peter Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2hjvd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3e7c598c-8611-0e30-23ec-8ce3f3f6a93a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Peter Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word of God, they may be won over without a word by the conduct of their wives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While they observe your pure and honorable conduct, accompanied by reverence and respect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your beauty should not come from outward adornment, such as elaborate hairstyles, the wearing of gold jewelry, or fine clothes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instead, let your true beauty come from within, from the inner self, which is imperishable—the unfading adornment of a gentle and peaceful spirit. This is precious and highly valued in God’s sight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For in the same way, the devout women of the past, who placed their hope in God, used to adorn themselves by submitting to their own husbands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as Sarah obeyed Abraham, addressing him as "lord," you are her spiritual daughters if you do what is right and do not give in to fear or anxiety.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding manner, honoring them as the more delicate partner and as joint heirs of the gracious gift of life. Do this so that your prayers may not be hindered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Finally, all of you should be united in thought and purpose, showing empathy and understanding toward one another. Love each other as brothers and sisters, be tenderhearted, and act with kindness and humility.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not repay evil with evil, or insult with insult. Instead, respond with blessing, because you were called for this very purpose, so that you may inherit a blessing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For whoever desires to love life and experience good days must keep their tongue from speaking evil and their lips from uttering deceit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let him turn away from evil and do what is good; let him pursue peace and actively follow after it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord watches over the righteous, and He listens attentively to their prayers. However, His presence stands opposed to those who do evil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And who is there that will cause you harm if you are devoted to doing what is good?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you endure suffering because of your commitment to righteousness, you are truly blessed. Do not fear what they fear, nor let their threats unsettle you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Set apart the Lord God as holy in your hearts, and always be prepared to give a thoughtful and respectful explanation to anyone who asks you about the hope you possess, doing so with humility and reverence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Maintain a clear conscience, so that when others speak maliciously about you, accusing you of wrongdoing, they may be put to shame for slandering your honorable conduct in Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It is better, if it is God’s will, for you to endure suffering for doing what is right rather than for doing what is wrong.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous one for the unrighteous, so that he might bring us to God. He was put to death in the flesh but made alive by the Spirit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through this same power, he went and proclaimed his message to the spirits held in captivity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the past, these individuals were disobedient, during the time when God patiently waited in the days of Noah while the ark was being built. In that ark, only a few people—eight souls in total—were saved through the water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This symbol, which corresponds to baptism, now also saves us—not by removing physical dirt from the body, but as the appeal of a clear conscience toward God—through the resurrection of Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He who has ascended into heaven and now sits at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers all placed under his authority.</span></p>






</body></html>