<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 46</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2qm8w.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:05c01ae3-8f81-817c-16d7-dd9ab3dc20d7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 46</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message from the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning Egypt, and concerning the forces of Pharaoh Necho, king of Egypt, which were stationed by the Euphrates River at Carchemish—these were the troops that Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, defeated in the fourth year of Jehoiakim, son of Josiah, king of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prepare your armor and shields, and advance to engage in battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prepare the horses; mount up, you riders, and take your positions with your helmets on. Polish the spears, and put on your armor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why have I seen them terrified and retreating in defeat? Their warriors are crushed and flee swiftly, not daring to look back, for terror surrounds them on every side, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not let the swift flee or the strong warrior escape; they will stumble and fall in the north, by the Euphrates River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who is this that rises like a rushing torrent, whose waters surge like mighty rivers?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Egypt rises up like a surging flood, and its waters churn like mighty rivers. It declares, "I will advance and overwhelm the land; I will destroy cities and all who dwell in them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Advance, you horses; charge fiercely, you chariots; and let the warriors come forward—the Ethiopians and the Libyans, who carry the shield, and the Lydians, who skillfully wield and draw the bow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is the day of the Lord, the God of hosts, a day of retribution, when He will take vengeance on His enemies. The sword will consume and be filled, becoming drunk with their blood. For the Lord, the God of hosts, has prepared a sacrifice in the northern land, by the river Euphrates.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go up to Gilead and gather healing balm, O virgin daughter of Egypt. Despite your many remedies, your efforts will be in vain, for you will not be healed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The nations have heard of your disgrace, and your outcry has spread across the land. For the strong warrior has stumbled against another strong warrior, and both have fallen together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that the LORD spoke to the prophet Jeremiah concerning how Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, would come and strike the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Proclaim this message in Egypt, announce it in Migdol, and make it known in Noph and Tahpanhes. Say to them, "Take your stand and prepare yourselves, for the sword will consume everything around you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why have your mighty warriors been overthrown? They could not stand firm, because the LORD himself thrust them down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He caused many to stumble, indeed, they fell one upon another. Then they said, "Get up, and let us return to our own people and to the land of our birth, away from the sword of oppression."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There they cried out, "Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, is nothing but a loud noise; he has missed his appointed time."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"As surely as I live," declares the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts, "just as Mount Tabor stands among the mountains and Mount Carmel rises by the sea, so shall he come."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O daughter who dwells in Egypt, prepare yourself for exile, for Memphis will become a ruin, deserted and without inhabitants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Egypt is like a splendid, well-fed cow, but devastation is coming—it approaches from the north.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even her mercenaries are among her like well-fed calves; for they too have turned back and fled together. They did not hold their ground, because the day of their disaster has come upon them, the time of their punishment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sound of their advance will be like the hiss of a serpent, for they will move forward as a mighty army and attack her with axes, like woodcutters felling trees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares, "They will cut down her forest, even though it is vast and impenetrable, for their numbers are greater than locusts and beyond counting."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Egypt will be put to shame; they will be handed over to the power of the northern nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Behold, I will bring judgment upon the great city of No, upon Pharaoh, and upon Egypt, along with their gods and their rulers—yes, upon Pharaoh and all who place their trust in him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will hand them over to those who seek to take their lives, to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, and to his servants. But afterward, the land will be inhabited again, as it was in former times, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be afraid, my servant Jacob, and do not be discouraged, O Israel. For I will surely save you from distant lands, and your descendants from the land of their captivity. Jacob will return and live in peace and security, with no one to cause him fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be afraid, Jacob, my servant, declares the LORD, for I am with you. I will bring about the complete destruction of all the nations to which I have driven you, but I will not completely destroy you. Instead, I will discipline you with justice, yet I will not let you go entirely unpunished.</span></p>






</body></html>