<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2qn86.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ad87a41e-b13f-657c-6f88-248ddce65ef6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a man from Ramathaim-zophim, in the hill country of Ephraim, named Elkanah. He was the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, and he belonged to the clan of the Ephrathites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He had two wives: one named Hannah and the other named Peninnah. Peninnah had children, but Hannah was childless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every year, this man would travel from his city to worship and offer sacrifices to the LORD of hosts in Shiloh. At that time, Eli’s two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, who served as priests of the LORD, were also present there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When it came time for Elkanah to present his offering, he gave portions to his wife Peninnah and to all her sons and daughters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But to Hannah he gave a double portion, for he loved her deeply, though the LORD had closed her womb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her rival also continually provoked her, greatly distressing her, because the LORD had closed her womb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Year after year, whenever she went up to the house of the LORD, he would act in this way, and she would provoke her deeply. As a result, she would weep and refuse to eat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Elkanah, her husband, said to her, "Hannah, why are you weeping? Why aren't you eating? And why is your heart so troubled? Am I not more to you than ten sons?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh, Hannah stood up. At that time, Eli the priest was sitting on his chair by the doorpost of the LORD’s temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She was deeply distressed in her spirit and fervently prayed to the LORD, weeping bitterly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then she made a solemn vow, saying, "O LORD of hosts, if you truly look upon the suffering of your servant, remember me, and do not forget your servant, but grant your servant a son, then I will dedicate him to the LORD for all the days of his life, and no razor shall ever touch his head."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As she persisted in prayer before the LORD, Eli observed her lips moving.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hannah was praying silently in her heart; her lips were moving, but no sound came from her voice. Because of this, Eli thought she was drunk.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Eli said to her, "How long will you continue in this drunken state? Stop drinking wine and rid yourself of it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hannah replied, "No, my lord, I am a woman deeply troubled in spirit. I have not been drinking wine or strong drink, but I have been pouring out my heart before the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not regard your servant as a wicked or worthless woman, for I have spoken out of the depth of my anguish and distress up to this point.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Eli responded, saying, "Go in peace. May the God of Israel grant you the request you have made to Him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said, "May your servant find favor in your sight." Then the woman went on her way, ate, and her face was no longer downcast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They got up early in the morning, worshiped before the LORD, and then returned to their home in Ramah. Elkanah was intimate with his wife Hannah, and the LORD remembered her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, when the time came around after Hannah had conceived, she gave birth to a son and named him Samuel, saying, "Because I have asked for him from the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elkanah, along with his entire household, went up to present the annual sacrifice to the LORD and to fulfill his vow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Hannah did not go up with them, for she said to her husband, "I will not go until the child is weaned. Then I will bring him, so that he may appear before the LORD and remain there permanently."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elkanah, her husband, said to her, "Do what seems best to you. Stay here until you have weaned him; only may the LORD fulfill His promise." So the woman stayed and nursed her son until she had weaned him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After she had weaned him, she took him with her, along with three young bulls, an ephah of flour, and a skin of wine, and brought him to the house of the LORD in Shiloh. The child was still very young.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They slaughtered a bull and brought the child to Eli.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said, "As surely as you live, my lord, I am the woman who stood here beside you, praying to the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I prayed for this child, and the LORD has granted me the request I made to Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I have dedicated him to the LORD; for as long as he lives, he will be dedicated to the LORD." And there, he worshiped the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>