<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2r7pq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d7051eb7-ea2c-986d-3973-c50e825c7485" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Joshua’s death, the Israelites inquired of the LORD, asking, “Who among us should lead the attack against the Canaanites and be the first to engage them in battle?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declared, "Judah will advance. Look, I have given the land into his control."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah said to his brother Simeon, "Come with me into the territory allotted to me, so that we can fight against the Canaanites. In return, I will go with you into your allotted territory." So Simeon went with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah advanced, and the LORD gave the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands. They struck down ten thousand men at Bezek.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They came upon Adoni-bezek in Bezek and engaged him in battle. They defeated the Canaanites and the Perizzites, and Adoni-bezek was captured.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Adoni-bezek fled, but they pursued him, captured him, and cut off his thumbs and big toes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Adoni-bezek said, "Seventy kings, with their thumbs and big toes cut off, used to gather scraps under my table. Just as I have done, God has repaid me." They brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Judah had engaged in battle against Jerusalem, captured it, struck it down with the sword, and set the city ablaze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, the people of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites who lived in the hill country, the southern region, and the lowlands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah advanced against the Canaanites who lived in Hebron (the name of Hebron was formerly Kiriath-arba). They defeated Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From there, he advanced to attack the inhabitants of Debir. Previously, Debir was known as Kiriath-sepher.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Caleb declared, "To the man who attacks and captures Kirjath-sepher, I will give my daughter Achsah as his wife."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Othniel, the son of Kenaz and Caleb’s younger brother, captured it. In response, Caleb gave his daughter Achsah to Othniel as his wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When she arrived and approached him, she persuaded him to ask her father for a field. She then dismounted from her donkey, and Caleb said to her, "What do you want?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She said to him, "Grant me a special favor: since you have given me land in the southern region, also give me springs of water." So Caleb gave her both the upper springs and the lower springs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, left the city of palm trees and traveled with the people of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, located south of Arad. They settled there and lived among the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah went with his brother Simeon, and they attacked the Canaanites who lived in Zephath, completely destroying the city. From that time on, the city was called Hormah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah also captured Gaza along with its surrounding territory, Ashkelon with its surrounding territory, and Ekron with its surrounding territory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD was with Judah, and they succeeded in driving out the inhabitants of the hill country. However, they were unable to drive out the people living in the valley, because those inhabitants had iron chariots.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They granted Hebron to Caleb, just as Moses had commanded. Caleb then drove out from there the three sons of Anak.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The tribe of Benjamin did not expel the Jebusites who lived in Jerusalem; instead, the Jebusites continued to live alongside the people of Benjamin in Jerusalem up to the present day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The house of Joseph also advanced against Bethel, and the LORD was with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Joseph sent scouts to explore Bethel. (Previously, the city was named Luz.)</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The scouts observed a man emerging from the city, and they said to him, "Please show us the way into the city, and we will treat you with kindness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he showed them the way into the city, they attacked it with the sword and destroyed it, but they spared the man and his entire family.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man traveled to the land of the Hittites, where he built a city and named it Luz. That has been its name to this very day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Manasseh did not drive out the people living in Beth-shean and its surrounding villages, nor those in Taanach and its villages, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its villages, nor the residents of Ibleam and its villages, nor the people of Megiddo and its villages. Instead, the Canaanites continued to live in that land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Israel grew strong, they subjected the Canaanites to forced labor but did not completely drive them out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The tribe of Ephraim did not succeed in driving out the Canaanites who lived in Gezer. As a result, the Canaanites continued to dwell in Gezer, living among the people of Ephraim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The tribe of Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of Kitron or the inhabitants of Nahalol. Instead, the Canaanites continued to live among them, though they were forced to pay tribute.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The tribe of Asher did not expel the inhabitants of Accho, nor those of Sidon, Ahlab, Achzib, Helbah, Aphik, or Rehob.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the tribe of Asher settled among the Canaanites, the native inhabitants of the land, because they did not expel them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh or the inhabitants of Beth-anath. Instead, they settled among the Canaanites who lived in the land. However, the people of Beth-shemesh and Beth-anath were eventually forced to pay tribute to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Amorites drove the Danites back into the hill country, refusing to allow them to come down into the valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Amorites persisted in living in Mount Heres, Aijalon, and Shaalbim. Nevertheless, the power of the house of Joseph overcame them, and they were forced to pay tribute.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The territory of the Amorites extended from the ascent of Akrabbim, starting at the rocky cliffs and continuing upward.</span></p>






</body></html>