<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2rawi.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:79c42cf9-1ddb-ea07-bd22-73c43bef1750" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Count the number of the descendants of Kohath from among the Levites, according to their clans and their ancestral households.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the age of thirty up to fifty years, all who are eligible to serve in the assembly, to perform the duties in the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This will be the duty of the descendants of Kohath in the tent of meeting, concerning the most sacred objects:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the camp prepares to move, Aaron and his sons shall come and take down the veil that serves as a covering. They shall use it to cover the Ark of the Testimony.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall then cover it with a protective layer of fine leather and spread over it a cloth entirely of blue. Afterward, they shall insert its carrying poles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the table for the bread of the Presence, they are to spread a blue cloth and place on it the plates, the dishes for incense, the bowls, and the pitchers for the drink offering. The regular bread offering must also remain on it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall spread a scarlet cloth over them and cover it with a covering of fine leather, and then insert the carrying poles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall take a blue cloth and cover the lampstand of the light, along with its lamps, its tongs, its trays, and all the containers for its oil, which are used in serving it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall place it, along with all its utensils, inside a covering made of fine leather, and then set it on a carrying frame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall spread a blue cloth over the golden altar and cover it with a protective covering made of fine leather. Then they shall insert its carrying poles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are to gather all the tools and equipment used for serving in the sacred space, wrap them in a blue cloth, and cover them with a protective covering made of fine leather. Then they are to place them on carrying poles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall remove the ashes from the altar and cover it with a purple cloth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall place upon it all the utensils used in its service—the fire pans, the meat forks, the shovels, and the basins—all the equipment of the altar. Then they shall spread over it a covering of fine leather and insert its carrying poles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Aaron and his sons have finished covering the sanctuary and all the sacred objects within it, and the camp is ready to move forward, the descendants of Kohath shall come to carry these items. However, they must not touch any of the holy objects directly, or they will die. These are the responsibilities assigned to the sons of Kohath regarding the transport of the sacred items in the tabernacle of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, is responsible for the oil for the lamps, the fragrant incense, the regular grain offering, the anointing oil, and the supervision of the entire tabernacle and everything in it, including the sanctuary and its sacred vessels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not remove the tribe of the Kohathite families from among the Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you must treat them in this way so that they may live and not die when they come near the most sacred objects. Aaron and his sons shall enter and assign each of them to their specific duties and responsibilities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they must not enter to look upon the holy objects while they are being covered, or else they will die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Count the number of the descendants of Gershon, according to their ancestral houses and families.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to count those who are thirty years old and above, up to fifty years old—all who are qualified to join in the service and carry out the work in the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the assigned duty of the families of the Gershonites: to serve and to carry the burdens.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall carry the curtains of the tabernacle, the tent of meeting with its covering, the outer covering of fine leather that is over it, and the screen for the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The curtains surrounding the courtyard, along with the curtain for the entrance of the courtyard gate, which is near the tabernacle and the altar on all sides, as well as their ropes and all the equipment used in their service—everything made for these purposes—shall be used for their assigned tasks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron and his sons shall oversee all the duties of the Gershonites, including their responsibilities and tasks. You are to assign them specific duties and ensure they are accountable for all their responsibilities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the duty of the families of the Gershonites in the tent of meeting: their responsibility will be under the authority of Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the descendants of Merari, you are to count them according to their families and their ancestral households.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to count all those from thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who is qualified to join the service and perform the work in the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the responsibility of their assigned duties, concerning all their work in the tent of meeting: the frames of the tabernacle, its crossbars, its posts, and their bases.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the pillars surrounding the courtyard, along with their bases, their pegs, and their ropes, together with all their equipment and everything related to their use. You shall also assign by name the specific tools and items required for the tasks they are responsible for carrying out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the assigned duty of the families descended from Merari, encompassing all their responsibilities in the service of the tabernacle of meeting, carried out under the supervision of Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses, Aaron, and the leaders of the community counted the Kohathites according to their clans and their ancestral households.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the age of thirty up to fifty years old, everyone who is qualified to serve and perform the work in the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those registered, according to their families, was two thousand seven hundred and fifty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These were the individuals counted from the families of the Kohathites, all who were qualified to serve in the tabernacle of meeting. Moses and Aaron registered them according to the command of the LORD, as directed through Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The count of the descendants of Gershon, recorded by their clans and their ancestral households, was as follows:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the age of thirty up to fifty years, everyone who is qualified to serve and perform the work in the tent of meeting shall enter into service.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted, according to their families and ancestral households, was two thousand six hundred and thirty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the individuals counted from the families of the sons of Gershon, all who were qualified to serve in the tabernacle of meeting. Moses and Aaron registered them according to the command of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the total number of those registered from the families of the sons of Merari, according to their clans and their ancestral households.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the age of thirty up to fifty years old, everyone who is qualified to serve and perform the work in the tent of meeting shall enter into service.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted, according to their families, was three thousand two hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the ones who were counted from the families of the sons of Merari, whom Moses and Aaron registered according to the command of the LORD, as directed by Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All those who were counted among the Levites, whom Moses, Aaron, and the leaders of Israel registered according to their clans and their ancestral households.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the age of thirty up to fifty years, everyone who was qualified to perform the duties of service and the work of carrying burdens in the tabernacle of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted among them was eight thousand five hundred and eighty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In accordance with the LORD's instruction, they were counted under Moses' direction, each one according to their assigned duties and responsibilities. This numbering was carried out as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>






</body></html>