<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2tpm7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:1278e771-9862-5fa0-2f45-dd91fe54a22f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not offer to the LORD your God any bull or sheep that has a defect or any flaw, for that is detestable to the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone is found among you, within any of the towns that the LORD your God is giving you, whether a man or a woman, who has committed evil in the sight of the LORD your God by breaking his covenant,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if they have gone and served other gods, bowing down to them—whether the sun, the moon, or any of the heavenly bodies—which I have not commanded them to worship,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If it is reported to you, and you have heard about it, and you investigate thoroughly, and indeed it is true and the matter is certain—that such a detestable act has been committed in Israel—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall bring out the man or the woman who has committed this evil act to the gates of your town—that man or woman—and you shall stone them to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A person who is deserving of death must only be executed on the testimony of two or three witnesses. However, no one shall be put to death based on the testimony of a single witness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The witnesses must be the first to lay their hands on him to execute him, and afterward, all the people shall join in. In this way, you will remove the evil from your midst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a legal case arises that is too difficult for you to judge—whether it concerns disputes about bloodshed, legal claims, or injuries, and these matters of controversy arise within your community—then you must go to the place that the LORD your God will choose.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall go to the Levitical priests and to the judge who is in office at that time, and seek their guidance. They will declare to you the verdict of the case.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must act according to the decision that the authorities in the place the LORD chooses will give you. Be careful to follow all that they instruct you to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must act in accordance with the instruction of the law that they teach you and the judgment they declare to you. Do not turn aside from what they direct you, either to the right or to the left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person who acts arrogantly, refusing to listen to the priest who stands to serve there before the LORD your God, or to the judge, that person must be put to death. In this way, you will remove the evil from Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all the people will hear, be filled with awe, and no longer act arrogantly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you enter the land that the LORD your God is giving you, take possession of it, and settle in it, and then you say, “I will appoint a king over me, like all the nations around me,”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must appoint as king over you the one whom the LORD your God chooses. He must be selected from among your fellow Israelites; you are not permitted to appoint a foreigner as king over you—someone who is not your brother.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king must not acquire a large number of horses for himself, nor shall he send the people back to Egypt in order to increase his supply of horses, for the LORD has said to you, “You must never return that way again.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king must not take many wives for himself, so that his heart does not turn away from what is right. Nor should he accumulate excessive amounts of silver and gold for himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he takes his seat on the throne of his kingdom, he must write for himself a copy of this law in a book, based on the one kept by the Levitical priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The text shall remain with him, and he shall read from it every day of his life, so that he may learn to revere the LORD his God, to carefully observe all the words of this law and these statutes, and to faithfully carry them out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that his heart does not become arrogant over his fellow Israelites, and so that he does not turn away from the commandment, either to the right or to the left. In this way, he may extend his days in his kingship, he and his descendants, in the midst of Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>