<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2wwjz.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:28f97853-9a99-40b4-a1bc-33b4ba9ea8fe" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua, the son of Nun, sent two men from Shittim to secretly explore the land, specifically Jericho. They went and entered the house of a woman named Rahab, who was a prostitute, and stayed there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Jericho was informed, saying, "Look, some men from the Israelites have come here tonight to spy out the land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Jericho sent a message to Rahab, saying, "Hand over the men who came to you and entered your house, for they have come to spy on the entire land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman took the two men and hid them, then said, "Some men came to me, but I did not know where they were from."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It happened around the time the gate was being closed, when it was dark, that the men went out. I do not know where they went. Pursue them quickly, for you can overtake them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, she had taken them up to the roof of the house and concealed them among the stalks of flax that she had arranged in orderly rows on the roof.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men pursued them along the road leading to the Jordan River, heading toward the crossing points. As soon as those who were chasing them had gone out, the gate was shut.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before they went to sleep, she went up to them on the roof.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said to the men, "I know that the LORD has given you this land, and that fear of you has overwhelmed us, so that all who live here are paralyzed with dread because of you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For we have heard how the LORD dried up the waters of the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were on the other side of the Jordan—Sihon and Og—whom you completely destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As soon as we heard these things, our courage failed us, and no one had any strength left because of you. For the LORD your God is God in heaven above and on the earth below.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, I ask you, swear to me by the LORD—since I have shown you kindness—that you will also show kindness to my father’s family, and give me a sure sign of your promise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And please spare the lives of my father, my mother, my brothers, my sisters, and all that belongs to them, and save us from death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men replied to her, "We will give our lives in exchange for yours, provided you do not reveal our mission. When the LORD gives us this land, we will treat you with kindness and faithfulness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then she lowered them by a rope through the window, because her house was built into the town wall, and she lived within the wall itself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She said to them, "Go up into the mountains, so that those pursuing you do not find you. Hide there for three days until the pursuers have turned back. After that, you may go on your way."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men replied to her, "We will be free from any guilt concerning this oath you have made us swear."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: when we enter the land, you must tie this scarlet cord in the window through which you let us down. You must also gather your father, your mother, your brothers, and all your father’s household into your home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone leaves the doors of your house and goes out into the street, their blood will be on their own head, and we will be free of responsibility. But if anyone stays with you in the house, their blood will be on our heads if any harm comes to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you reveal this matter of ours, then we will be released from the oath you made us swear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She replied, "As you have said, so let it be." Then she sent them away, and they left. Afterward, she tied the scarlet cord in the window.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They set out and arrived at the mountain, where they stayed for three days until the pursuers had turned back. The pursuers searched for them along the entire route but did not find them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the two men went back, came down from the mountain, crossed over, and went to Joshua, the son of Nun. They told him everything that had happened to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they said to Joshua, "It is certain that the LORD has given the entire land into our hands, for all the people of the land are overcome with fear because of us."</span></p>






</body></html>