<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2ysxg.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7227ed80-8822-9bd7-05d6-f219382cc4c0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the queen of Sheba heard about Solomon’s reputation, she traveled to Jerusalem to test him with challenging questions. She arrived with a large retinue, accompanied by camels carrying spices, vast quantities of gold, and precious stones. When she met Solomon, she spoke with him about everything that was on her mind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon answered all her questions thoroughly; there was nothing too difficult or hidden that he did not explain to her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the queen of Sheba witnessed Solomon's wisdom and the palace he had constructed,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The food served at his table, the seating arrangements of his officials, the service of his attendants and their clothing, his cupbearers and their attire, and the way he ascended to the house of the LORD—all of this left her utterly overwhelmed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said to the king, "The report I heard in my own land about your accomplishments and your wisdom is true."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I did not believe their reports until I came and saw it with my own eyes. Indeed, not even half of the greatness of your wisdom was conveyed to me; you surpass far beyond the reputation I had heard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Blessed are your people, and blessed are these servants of yours who continually stand in your presence and listen to your wisdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Praise be to the LORD your God, who took delight in you and placed you on His throne to serve as king for the LORD your God. Because your God loved Israel and desired to establish them forever, He appointed you as their king to administer justice and righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She presented the king with 120 talents of gold, an immense quantity of spices, and precious gemstones. Never before had such an abundance of spices been given as those the queen of Sheba brought to King Solomon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The servants of Huram and the servants of Solomon, who transported gold from Ophir, also brought algum wood and precious stones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king used the algum wood to construct walkways for the house of the LORD and for the royal palace, as well as to make harps and lyres for the musicians. Never before had such fine instruments been seen in the land of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon granted the queen of Sheba everything she desired, whatever she requested, in addition to what she had already brought to the king. Then she and her servants departed and returned to her own land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The amount of gold that came to Solomon in a single year weighed six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In addition to what the traders and merchants brought, all the kings of Arabia and the regional governors also brought gold and silver to Solomon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon crafted two hundred large shields of hammered gold, with six hundred shekels of hammered gold used for each shield.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He made three hundred shields of hammered gold, with three hundred shekels of gold used for each shield. The king placed them in the House of the Forest of Lebanon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the king constructed a magnificent throne made of ivory and covered it entirely with pure gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The throne had six steps leading up to it, and a golden footstool attached to it. On either side of the seat were armrests, with two lions standing beside them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Twelve lions stood on either side of the six steps. Nothing like this had ever been made in any other kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of King Solomon's drinking cups were made of gold, and all the utensils in the House of the Forest of Lebanon were crafted from pure gold. Silver was not used for any of these items, as it was considered of little value during Solomon's reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king's ships sailed to Tarshish under the command of Huram's servants. Every three years, the ships of Tarshish would return, carrying gold, silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon surpassed all the kings of the earth in both wealth and wisdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the kings of the earth sought an audience with Solomon to hear the wisdom that God had placed in his heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each person brought their offering: items of silver and gold, garments, armor, spices, horses, and mules, as was customary each year.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon maintained four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, along with twelve thousand horsemen. He stationed them in the cities designated for chariots and also kept some with him in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he ruled over all the kings from the Euphrates River to the land of the Philistines, extending as far as the border of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stones, and he supplied cedar trees in such abundance that they were as plentiful as the sycamore trees in the lowland regions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon received horses imported from Egypt and from various other regions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Solomon’s reign, from beginning to end, are recorded in the writings of Nathan the prophet, in the prophecies of Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer concerning Jeroboam, the son of Nebat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Solomon ruled as king in Jerusalem over all of Israel for forty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon died and was buried in the city of his father David. His son Rehoboam succeeded him as king.</span></p>






</body></html>