<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s2zvi0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:579b4990-96c9-bf3d-cca7-259a976dfa27" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But there was a man named Ananias, along with his wife Sapphira, who sold a piece of property.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They secretly held back a portion of the money, with his wife fully aware of it, and brought only a part of the proceeds, placing it at the apostles' feet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Peter responded, "Ananias, why have you allowed Satan to influence your heart, causing you to deceive the Holy Spirit and withhold part of the proceeds from the sale of the land?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While the land remained unsold, was it not your own? And after it was sold, was the money not under your control? Why did you decide in your heart to do such a thing? You have not lied to people, but to God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Ananias heard these words, he collapsed and died. And a deep sense of awe came over all who heard about what had happened.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The young men got up, wrapped his body, carried him out, and laid him to rest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">About three hours later, his wife arrived, unaware of what had taken place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Peter responded to her, "Tell me, did you sell the land for this amount?" She replied, "Yes, for that amount."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Peter said to her, "Why have you conspired together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Look, the feet of those who buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Immediately, she collapsed at his feet and breathed her last. When the young men entered, they found her dead. They carried her out and buried her beside her husband.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And a profound sense of awe came over the entire assembly of believers, as well as all who heard about these events.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through the ministry of the apostles, many miraculous signs and wonders were performed among the people. All the believers were united in purpose and gathered together in Solomon’s Colonnade.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, no one else dared to associate with them, but the people held them in high esteem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And more and more people came to believe in the Lord, great numbers of both men and women.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people were so convinced of Peter's divine power that they carried the sick out into the streets and placed them on beds and mats, hoping that even his shadow might fall on some of them as he passed by.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A large crowd also came from the surrounding cities to Jerusalem, bringing those who were sick and those who were tormented by unclean spirits. And every one of them was healed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the high priest stood up, along with all those who were with him (who belonged to the sect of the Sadducees), and they were filled with anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They placed their hands on the apostles and took them into custody, confining them in the public prison.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But during the night, the angel of the Lord opened the doors of the prison, led them out, and said,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go, stand in the temple and proclaim to the people all the teachings about this life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they heard this, they entered the temple at dawn and began to teach. But the high priest arrived with those who were with him, convened the council, and gathered the entire assembly of the elders of Israel. Then they sent orders to the prison to have the apostles brought before them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the officers arrived and discovered that they were not in the prison, they went back and reported,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "We found the prison securely locked and the guards stationed at the doors, but when we opened it, there was no one inside."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the high priest, the captain of the temple guard, and the chief priests heard about these events, they were deeply troubled and uncertain about how far this situation might escalate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then someone came and reported to them, saying, "Look, the men you put in prison are now standing in the temple, teaching the people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the captain, along with his officers, went and brought them without using force, because they were afraid of the people, fearing that they might be stoned by the crowd.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they had brought them, they presented them before the council. The high priest then questioned them, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "Did we not strictly command you not to teach in this name? Yet now you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you are determined to make us responsible for this man’s blood."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Peter and the other apostles responded, saying, "We must obey God rather than human authority."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The God of our ancestors raised up Jesus, whom you killed by hanging him on a tree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God has raised him to a position of honor and authority by His mighty power, appointing him as both a Ruler and a Deliverer, so that he might grant repentance to Israel and the forgiveness of sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We are witnesses to these events, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they heard this, they were deeply distressed and resolved together to put them to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a man named Gamaliel, a Pharisee who was a teacher of the law and highly respected by all the people, stood up in the council. He ordered that the apostles be taken outside for a short time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "Men of Israel, be very careful about what you plan to do concerning these men."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before these events, a man named Theudas rose up, claiming to be someone important. About four hundred men joined him. However, he was killed, and all who followed him were scattered, and his movement came to nothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this man, Judas of Galilee arose during the time of the census and led many people to follow him. He too met his end, and all those who followed him were scattered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now I tell you, stay away from these men and leave them alone. For if this plan or this work is of human origin, it will fail and come to nothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if this is from God, you will not be able to stop it; otherwise, you might find yourselves opposing God Himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The council agreed with his suggestion. After summoning the apostles, they had them beaten and then ordered them not to speak anymore in the name of Jesus. After issuing this command, they released them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They left the council's presence, filled with joy because they had been considered worthy to endure disgrace for the sake of his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every day, both in the temple and from house to house, they never stopped teaching and proclaiming the message about Jesus Christ.</span></p>






</body></html>