<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s34efk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a40fe875-29d9-8e12-f8d2-ea9bea46d983" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Abijah died and was buried in the City of David alongside his ancestors. His son Asa succeeded him as king. During Asa’s reign, the land experienced peace for ten years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Asa did what was good and right in the sight of the LORD his God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he removed the altars dedicated to foreign gods, demolished the high places, shattered the carved idols, and cut down the sacred poles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He instructed Judah to seek the LORD, the God of their ancestors, and to obey the law and the commandments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also removed the high places and the idols from all the cities of Judah. As a result, the kingdom experienced peace and stability during his reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed fortified cities throughout Judah, for the land was at peace, and there was no war during those years because the LORD had granted him rest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he said to Judah, "Let us rebuild these cities and surround them with walls, towers, gates, and bars, while the land is still under our control. For we have sought the LORD our God; we have sought Him, and He has granted us peace on every side." So they built and prospered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Asa commanded an army of skilled warriors from Judah, numbering three hundred thousand men, who carried large shields and spears. Additionally, there were two hundred and eighty thousand men from Benjamin, who carried shields and were skilled archers. All of these soldiers were courageous and mighty warriors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Zerah the Ethiopian advanced against them with an army of one million men and three hundred chariots, and they arrived at Mareshah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Asa marched out to confront him, and they arranged their forces for battle in the Valley of Zephathah near Mareshah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Asa called out to the LORD his God and said, "LORD, it makes no difference to you whether you help those with great strength or those who have no power. Help us, O LORD our God, for we rely on you, and in your name we go out to face this vast army. O LORD, you are our God; do not let mere mortals prevail against you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the LORD struck down the Ethiopians in the presence of Asa and Judah, causing the Ethiopians to flee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Asa and the people who were with him pursued the Ethiopians as far as Gerar. The Ethiopians were utterly defeated, so that they could not recover, for they were crushed before the LORD and before his army. The people of Judah carried off a great amount of plunder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They attacked and conquered all the cities surrounding Gerar, for the fear of the LORD had fallen upon them. They plundered all these cities, taking a great amount of spoil, as there was an abundance of valuable goods within them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They also attacked the livestock encampments, taking away a great number of sheep and camels, and then they returned to Jerusalem.</span></p>






</body></html>