<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Zechariah Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s37fmx.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:894acf7f-9bc3-8933-674d-c0bfe0613555" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Zechariah Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the weighty message from the LORD concerning the land of Hadrach, with Damascus as its focal point—for the eyes of humanity, like those of all the tribes of Israel, will be turned toward the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Hamath will also border this area, along with Tyre and Sidon, even though they are exceedingly clever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tyre fortified herself with a stronghold and amassed silver like dust, and fine gold like the mud in the streets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the Lord will drive her out and strike down her strength in the sea; she will be consumed by fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ashkelon will witness it and be filled with dread; Gaza will also see it and be overwhelmed with grief, as will Ekron, for their hope will be put to shame. The king will be cut off from Gaza, and Ashkelon will no longer be inhabited.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And a child born outside of marriage shall live in Ashdod, and I will put an end to the arrogance of the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will remove the blood from his mouth and the detestable things from between his teeth. But the one who remains, even he, will belong to our God. He will be like a leader in Judah, and Ekron will be like the Jebusites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will establish my protection around my house against any advancing army, against those who march by and those who return. No oppressor will ever pass through them again, for now I have seen with my own eyes what must be done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be filled with joy, O people of Zion; shout aloud, O people of Jerusalem: for your King is coming to you. He is righteous and brings deliverance; humble, and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the young offspring of a donkey. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will remove the war chariots from Ephraim and the warhorses from Jerusalem; the battle bow will be broken. He will proclaim peace to the nations, and his rule will extend from sea to sea, from the Euphrates River to the farthest ends of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for you, through the blood of your covenant, I have released your prisoners from the pit where there is no water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Turn back to the fortress, you who are prisoners yet filled with hope. Even today I declare that I will restore to you double what you have lost.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I have prepared Judah as my instrument, armed Ephraim like a bow, and roused your sons, O Zion, to stand against the sons of Greece, I will make you like the sword of a mighty warrior.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will appear over them, and His arrow will shoot forth like lightning. The Lord GOD will sound the trumpet and advance with the raging storms of the south.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD of armies will protect them; they will consume and overcome their enemies with slingstones. They will drink and shout as if intoxicated with wine; they will be filled to the brim like bowls, like the corners of the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the LORD their God will deliver them, like a shepherd rescuing his flock. For they will be like the precious jewels of a crown, raised high as a banner over his land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How magnificent is His goodness, and how splendid is His beauty! The grain will bring joy to the young men, and the new wine will gladden the young women.</span></p>






</body></html>