<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Daniel Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s3glwr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a232c78a-748e-1ae0-6129-b7480d418163" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Daniel Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the second year of Nebuchadnezzar's reign, he had dreams that deeply disturbed his spirit, causing him to lose sleep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king gave orders to summon the magicians, the enchanters, the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans to interpret his dream for him. So they came and presented themselves before the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to them, "I have had a dream, and my spirit is deeply troubled because I want to understand its meaning."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Chaldeans addressed the king in Aramaic, saying, "O king, may you live forever! Tell your servants the dream, and we will reveal its interpretation."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king responded and said to the Chaldeans, "The matter has slipped from my memory. If you do not reveal to me both the dream and its interpretation, you will be torn limb from limb, and your homes will be reduced to rubble."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if you can reveal the dream and its meaning, you will receive from me gifts, rewards, and great honor. So, tell me the dream and its interpretation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They responded once more, saying, "Let the king tell his servants the dream, and we will explain its meaning."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king replied, "I am certain that you are trying to delay, because you see that the matter has slipped from my control."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you do not reveal the dream to me, there is only one judgment for you: you have conspired to speak deceitful and misleading words before me, hoping the situation will change. Therefore, tell me the dream, and I will know that you can indeed provide me with its interpretation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Chaldeans responded to the king, saying, "There is no one on earth who can reveal the king's matter. No king, lord, or ruler has ever asked such a thing of any magician, astrologer, or Chaldean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What the king is asking for is extraordinary, and no one can reveal it to the king except the gods, whose dwelling is not among mortals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of this, the king became enraged and exceedingly furious, and he issued a decree to execute all the wise advisors of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The order was issued that the wise men should be put to death, and they searched for Daniel and his companions to execute them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Daniel responded with thoughtful and wise advice to Arioch, the commander of the king’s guard, who had been sent out to execute the wise men of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Daniel responded and said to Arioch, the king's official, "Why has the king issued such an urgent decree?" Then Arioch explained the matter to Daniel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Daniel entered and requested of the king that he be granted time, promising that he would reveal to the king the interpretation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Daniel then returned to his home and explained the matter to his companions, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They would seek compassion from the God of heaven regarding this mystery, so that Daniel and his companions would not be destroyed along with the other wise men of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the mystery was made known to Daniel in a vision during the night. Afterward, Daniel praised the God of heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Daniel responded, saying, "May the name of God be praised forever and ever, for wisdom and power belong to Him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He alters the times and the seasons; he deposes kings and establishes kings. He grants wisdom to the wise and gives knowledge to those who possess understanding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He uncovers profound and hidden matters; He knows what lies in the darkness, and light resides with Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I give thanks and praise to you, O God of my ancestors, for you have granted me wisdom and strength. You have now revealed to me what we asked of you, for you have made known to us the matter concerning the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Daniel went to Arioch, whom the king had appointed to execute the wise men of Babylon. He approached him and said, "Do not kill the wise men of Babylon. Take me to the king, and I will reveal to him the interpretation of his dream."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Arioch quickly brought Daniel before the king and said to him, "I have found a man among the exiles from Judah who can reveal to the king the interpretation of the dream."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king responded and said to Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, "Are you able to reveal to me the dream I have seen and its interpretation?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Daniel responded to the king, saying, "The mystery that the king has asked about cannot be revealed by the wise men, the enchanters, the magicians, or the diviners.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries, and He has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar what will happen in the days to come. Your dream and the visions that came to your mind as you lay on your bed are these:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for you, O king, while you were lying on your bed, thoughts arose in your mind about what would happen in the future. And the one who reveals mysteries has made known to you what is to come.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, this mystery has not been revealed to me because of any greater wisdom I possess compared to any other living being, but for the purpose of making the interpretation known to the king, so that you may understand the thoughts of your heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You, O king, looked and saw a great statue. This enormous statue, whose appearance was extraordinary, stood before you; and its form was awe-inspiring.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The head of this statue was made of pure gold, its chest and arms were of silver, its stomach and thighs were of bronze,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His legs were made of iron, and his feet were partly iron and partly clay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You observed until a stone was cut out, not by human hands, which struck the statue on its feet made of iron and clay, and shattered them into pieces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold were all shattered into pieces together, becoming like the chaff on a summer threshing floor. The wind swept them away, and no trace of them could be found. But the stone that struck the image grew into a great mountain and filled the entire earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the dream, and we will now explain its meaning to the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You, O king, are a king of kings, for the God of heaven has granted you a kingdom, authority, might, and honor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wherever human beings live, He has placed the wild animals and the birds of the sky under your control, appointing you as ruler over all of them. You are the head of gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After you, another kingdom will rise, though it will be less powerful than yours. Following that, a third kingdom will emerge, strong as bronze, and it will extend its dominion over the entire earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fourth kingdom will be as strong as iron, for just as iron shatters and crushes everything, so this kingdom will shatter and crush all others. Like iron that breaks everything in its path, it will smash and overpower all that stands before it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You saw the feet and toes, partly made of potter’s clay and partly of iron, which means the kingdom will be divided. Yet, it will retain some of the strength of iron, just as you saw the iron mixed with soft clay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as the toes of the feet were partly made of iron and partly of clay, so the kingdom will be partly strong and partly fragile.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You saw iron mixed with soft clay, indicating that they will try to unite themselves through alliances with human descendants. However, they will not hold together firmly, just as iron does not blend with clay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the reign of these kings, the God of heaven will establish a kingdom that will never be destroyed. This kingdom will not be handed over to another people, but it will shatter and bring to an end all these other kingdoms. It will endure forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you saw that the stone was cut from the mountain not by human hands, and that it shattered the iron, bronze, clay, silver, and gold, the great God has revealed to the king what will happen in the future. The dream is true, and its interpretation is trustworthy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell on his face and paid homage to Daniel. He ordered that offerings and fragrant incense be presented to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king responded to Daniel, saying, "Truly, your God is the supreme God above all gods, the sovereign ruler over kings, and the one who unveils hidden mysteries, for you have been able to reveal this secret."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king elevated Daniel to a position of great honor and bestowed upon him many valuable gifts. He appointed him as the ruler over the entire province of Babylon and made him the chief administrator over all the wise men of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Daniel made a request of the king, and he appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego to oversee the affairs of the province of Babylon. However, Daniel himself remained in the king’s court, serving in a position of high authority.</span></p>






</body></html>