<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 24</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s3hz50.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:bbd37e6a-faed-2d66-e660-18403b4e07a6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 24</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the anger of the LORD burned against Israel, and He incited David to act against them, saying, "Go, take a census of Israel and Judah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king instructed Joab, the commander of the army who was with him, saying, "Go throughout all the tribes of Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, and take a census of the people so that I may know how many there are."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab said to the king, "May the LORD your God increase the people a hundred times over, no matter how many they are, and may the eyes of my lord the king witness it. But why does my lord the king take pleasure in this matter?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Despite Joab and the commanders of the army objecting, the king's command overruled them. So Joab and the military leaders left the king's presence to carry out the census of the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They crossed the Jordan River and set up camp at Aroer, on the south side of the city located in the middle of the Gadite valley, extending toward Jazer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They then traveled to Gilead and continued into the region of Tahtim-hodshi. From there, they went to Dan-jaan and proceeded toward the area near Sidon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They advanced to the fortified city of Tyre and to all the towns of the Hivites and the Canaanites. Then they turned and marched toward the southern region of Judah, reaching as far as Beersheba.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had traveled throughout the entire land, they arrived in Jerusalem at the conclusion of nine months and twenty days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab presented the total count of the people to the king. In Israel, there were 800,000 capable warriors who could wield the sword, and in Judah, there were 500,000 fighting men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After David had counted the people, his conscience troubled him deeply. David then said to the LORD, "I have sinned greatly in what I have done. Now, I beg you, LORD, forgive the guilt of your servant, for I have acted very foolishly."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Early the next morning, the word of the LORD came to Gad, the prophet and David’s seer, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and tell David, "This is what the LORD says: I am presenting you with three options. Choose one of them, and I will carry it out for you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Gad went to David and told him, saying, "Should seven years of famine come upon your land? Or would you rather flee for three months before your enemies as they pursue you? Or should there be three days of plague in your land? Now consider carefully and decide what answer I should give to the one who sent me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Gad, "I am in deep distress. Let us fall into the hands of the LORD, for his compassion is abundant. But do not let me fall into the hands of humans."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the LORD sent a plague upon Israel from the morning until the appointed time, and seventy thousand men died among the people, from Dan all the way to Beersheba.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the angel extended his hand over Jerusalem to bring destruction, the LORD relented from the calamity and said to the angel who was carrying out the devastation, "Enough; withdraw your hand now." And the angel of the LORD was standing by the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David prayed to the LORD when he saw the angel striking down the people, saying, "Look, I have sinned, and I have acted wickedly. But these people, what have they done? Please, let your hand be against me and against my father’s household."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That day, Gad came to David and said to him, "Go up and build an altar to the LORD on the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And David, following the instruction given by Gad, went up as the LORD had commanded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Araunah looked up and saw the king and his officials approaching him. He went out to meet them and bowed down before the king, his face to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Araunah asked, "Why has my lord the king come to his servant?" David replied, "To purchase the threshing floor from you, so that I may build an altar to the LORD and stop the plague from afflicting the people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Araunah said to David, "Let my lord the king take whatever seems good to him and offer it up. Here are oxen for the burnt offering, as well as threshing tools and the yokes of the oxen to use as firewood."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Araunah, acting with the generosity of a king, offered all these things to King David. Then Araunah said to the king, "May the LORD your God look favorably upon you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king replied to Araunah, "No, I insist on buying it from you at a fair price. I will not offer burnt offerings to the LORD my God that cost me nothing." So David purchased the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David built an altar there to the LORD and presented burnt offerings and fellowship offerings. Then the LORD responded to his plea on behalf of the land, and the plague against Israel was halted.</span></p>






</body></html>