<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s3ko95.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cd3abfb2-6995-0301-8bb4-72c385a1380d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you are willing to return, O Israel, says the LORD, then return to me. And if you will put away your detestable idols from my presence and no longer wander astray, then you will not be uprooted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall swear, "As surely as the LORD lives," in truth, in justice, and in righteousness. Then the nations will find blessing in him, and in him they will take pride and glory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says to the people of Judah and Jerusalem: "Prepare your unplowed hearts, and do not sow your seeds among thorns."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Dedicate yourselves fully to the LORD, and remove the stubbornness and sin from your hearts, you people of Judah and residents of Jerusalem. Otherwise, my wrath will break out like a blazing fire, burning so fiercely that no one can extinguish it, because of the wickedness of your actions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Proclaim this message in Judah and announce it in Jerusalem. Say, "Sound the trumpet throughout the land! Shout loudly and call everyone together. Say, 'Gather yourselves and let us flee to the fortified cities for safety!'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Raise a banner toward Zion! Flee for safety; do not delay, for I am bringing disaster from the north, and a terrible devastation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The lion has emerged from its thicket, and the destroyer of nations is advancing; it has set out from its dwelling place to devastate your land. Your cities will be left in ruins, completely uninhabited.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, clothe yourselves in sackcloth, mourn, and wail, for the burning anger of the LORD has not turned away from us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day, declares the LORD, that the courage of the king will fail, and the resolve of the leaders will falter. The priests will be utterly dismayed, and the prophets will be filled with awe and confusion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said, "Ah, Lord God! Surely you have utterly deceived this people and Jerusalem by saying, 'You will have peace,' when in fact the sword threatens their very lives."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, it will be said to this people and to Jerusalem: "A scorching wind from the barren heights in the wilderness blows toward the daughter of my people—not to winnow or to purify."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A strong wind from those regions will come against me; now I will also pronounce judgment upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, he will advance like storm clouds, and his chariots will rush like a whirlwind; his horses are faster than eagles. How terrible for us, for we are ruined!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Jerusalem, cleanse your heart from evil, so that you may be delivered. How long will your empty and misguided thoughts dwell within you?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A voice proclaims from Dan, and announces calamity from the mountains of Ephraim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Proclaim this message among the nations; announce it publicly concerning Jerusalem: "Look, besiegers are coming from a distant land, and they will raise their voices against the cities of Judah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Like watchmen guarding a field, they surround her on every side, for she has rebelled against me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your actions and your conduct have brought these consequences upon you; this is the result of your wrongdoing, for it is grievous and deeply affects your very being.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My innermost being, my very core! I am deeply anguished, my heart is in turmoil; my heart pounds within me, and I cannot remain silent. For you have heard, O my soul, the blast of the trumpet, the call to battle and the clamor of war.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Disaster upon disaster is proclaimed, for the entire land is devastated. Suddenly, my tents are ruined, and in an instant, my shelter is destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How long must I witness the battle flag raised high and listen to the blaring sound of the trumpet?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My people are foolish; they do not know me. They are senseless children, lacking understanding. They are skilled in doing evil, but they have no knowledge of how to do good.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked at the earth, and behold, it was chaotic and desolate; and I looked at the heavens, and there was no light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked at the mountains, and behold, they were shaking, and all the hills were swaying gently.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked, and behold, there was no one to be found, and all the birds of the sky had fled away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked, and behold, the once fertile land had become a desolate wasteland, and all its cities lay in ruins before the presence of the LORD, brought low by His burning anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD has declared: The entire land will become a desolate wasteland, yet I will not bring about its complete destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of this, the earth will grieve, and the skies above will grow dark. For I have declared it, I have determined it, and I will not change my mind or turn back from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire city will flee at the sound of horsemen and archers; they will hide in the thickets and scramble up onto the rocks. Every city will be abandoned, with no one left to live in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you are plundered, what will you do? Even if you dress in crimson, adorn yourself with gold jewelry, or paint your face to enhance your beauty, it will all be in vain. Your efforts to make yourself attractive will fail, for those who once desired you will reject you and even seek to destroy you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I have heard a cry like that of a woman in labor, the distress of one giving birth to her first child—the voice of the daughter of Zion, lamenting and despairing, stretching out her hands and saying, "Woe to me now! My soul is exhausted because of the murderers."</span></p>






</body></html>