<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s3nz9d.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:54b77db0-bbe6-7875-5776-2e17778841a8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you go out to fight against your enemies and see horses, chariots, and an army larger than your own, do not be afraid of them, for the LORD your God is with you—the same God who brought you out of the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you approach the battlefield, the priest shall come forward and address the people, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you shall say to them, "Listen, O Israel, today you are drawing near to battle against your enemies. Do not let your hearts grow weak, do not be afraid, do not panic, and do not be terrified because of them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD your God is the one who goes with you, to fight on your behalf against your enemies and to deliver you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The officers shall address the people, saying, "Is there any man who has built a new house but has not yet dedicated it? Let him return to his home, so that he does not die in battle and another man dedicate it in his place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What man is there who has planted a vineyard and has not yet enjoyed its fruit? Let him go back to his house, so that he does not die in battle and another man eat from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is there any man who has pledged to marry a woman but has not yet taken her as his wife? Let him return to his home, so that he does not die in battle and another man takes her instead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The officers shall address the people further, saying, "Is there any man here who is afraid or disheartened? Let him return to his home, so that he does not cause his fellow soldiers to lose courage as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the officers have finished addressing the people, they shall appoint commanders over the armies to lead them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you approach a city to wage war against it, first offer it terms of peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the city responds to you peacefully and opens its gates to you, then all the people found within it shall become subject to you, paying tribute, and they shall serve you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the city refuses to make peace with you and instead chooses to wage war against you, then you must lay siege to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the LORD your God has given it into your hands, you are to strike down every male with the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the women, the children, the livestock, and everything else in the city—all its plunder—you may take for yourselves. You may use the spoils of your enemies, which the LORD your God has given you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what you must do to all the cities that are far away from you, which do not belong to the nations of this land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, concerning the cities of these peoples that the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance, you must not spare anything that breathes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must completely destroy them—the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites—just as the LORD your God has commanded you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Make sure they do not teach you to follow their detestable practices, which they have carried out in worshiping their gods. If you do so, you will be committing sin against the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you lay siege to a city for an extended period, waging war against it to capture it, you must not destroy its trees by wielding an axe against them. You may eat from them, but you must not cut them down, for the tree of the field is a source of life for humanity. Do not use them for siegeworks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must destroy and cut down only those trees that you know are not fruit-bearing trees. Use them to build siegeworks against the city that is waging war against you, until the city is conquered.</span></p>






</body></html>