<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezra Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s3sv8a.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:31985e79-218a-7903-2d5e-de65ab37c9f8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezra Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Darius issued a decree, and a search was conducted in the archives, where the official records were stored in Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A scroll was discovered in Achmetha, within the palace located in the province of Media, and on it was written the following record:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the first year of King Cyrus’s reign, King Cyrus issued a decree concerning the house of God in Jerusalem: "Let the house be rebuilt, the place where sacrifices are offered. Let its foundations be firmly laid, with a height of sixty cubits and a width of sixty cubits."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Using three layers of large stones and one layer of newly cut timber, let the work be carried out, and let the costs be covered from the royal treasury.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, let the gold and silver articles belonging to the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took from the temple in Jerusalem and brought to Babylon, be returned. They are to be brought back to the temple in Jerusalem, each to its proper place, and placed in the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, Tatnai, governor of the region beyond the Euphrates River, Shethar-boznai, and your associates, the officials of the province beyond the river, stay away from there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not interfere with the work on this house of God. Allow the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews to rebuild this house of God on its original site.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, I hereby issue a decree regarding what you must do for the elders of these Jews in support of the rebuilding of this house of God: From the royal treasury, specifically from the tribute collected beyond the Euphrates River, funds are to be promptly provided to these men so that the work is not delayed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And whatever they require—whether young bulls, rams, or lambs for the burnt offerings to the God of heaven, as well as wheat, salt, wine, and oil—let it be provided to them daily, without fail, according to the instructions of the priests in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that they may present offerings with a pleasing aroma to the God of heaven and pray for the life of the king and his sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have also issued a decree that if anyone alters this command, a beam shall be taken from their house, erected, and they shall be hanged on it. Furthermore, their house shall be turned into a pile of refuse because of this offense.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the God who has established His name to reside there overthrow any king or people who attempt to alter or destroy this house of God in Jerusalem. I, Darius, have issued this decree; let it be carried out promptly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Tatnai, the governor of the region west of the Euphrates River, along with Shethar-boznai and their associates, acted promptly in accordance with the decree that King Darius had sent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The elders of the Jews continued to build, and they succeeded through the encouragement and guidance of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah, the son of Iddo. They carried out the construction and completed it in accordance with the command of the God of Israel, as well as the decrees issued by Cyrus, Darius, and Artaxerxes, the kings of Persia.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The construction of this house was completed on the third day of the month of Adar, during the sixth year of the reign of King Darius.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Israel, along with the priests, the Levites, and the rest of those who had returned from exile, celebrated the dedication of this house of God with great joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the dedication of this house of God, they presented as offerings one hundred bulls, two hundred rams, and four hundred lambs. Additionally, as a sin offering for all Israel, they brought twelve male goats, corresponding to the number of the tribes of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They organized the priests into their assigned groups and the Levites into their appointed divisions for the service of God in Jerusalem, as it is prescribed in the book of Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The exiles who had returned from captivity observed the Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests and the Levites had all purified themselves together, and all of them were ceremonially clean. They then slaughtered the Passover lamb for all the exiles who had returned, for their fellow priests, and for themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites who had returned from exile, along with all those who had separated themselves from the impurity of the pagan peoples of the land to seek the LORD, the God of Israel, joined together and ate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They celebrated the Festival of Unleavened Bread for seven days with great joy, because the LORD had filled them with gladness. He had also moved the heart of the king of Assyria to support them, strengthening their efforts in the work of rebuilding the house of God, the God of Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>