<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Daniel Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s3wv9a.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9f98d2f4-e460-5981-9ab8-a4147c80dff1" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Daniel Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the third year of Cyrus, king of Persia, a revelation was given to Daniel, who was also known as Belteshazzar. The message was true, but it concerned a time far in the future. Daniel understood the revelation and gained insight into its meaning through the vision.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that time, I, Daniel, mourned for three complete weeks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I did not eat any enjoyable food, nor did meat or wine enter my mouth, nor did I anoint myself at all, until three full weeks had passed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the twenty-fourth day of the first month, as I stood beside the great river, the Tigris,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I raised my eyes and looked, and there before me was a man dressed in linen, with a belt of pure gold from Uphaz around his waist.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His body had the appearance of beryl, and his face shone like lightning. His eyes blazed like fiery torches, and his arms and feet gleamed like burnished bronze. The sound of his words was like the roar of a vast multitude.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, Daniel, was the only one who saw the vision. The men who were with me did not see it, but they were overwhelmed with such intense fear that they fled to find a place to hide.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, I was left alone and witnessed this extraordinary vision. All my strength drained away, and my vigor turned to weakness within me. I was utterly powerless, my appearance transformed into a state of decay, and I retained no strength at all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I heard the sound of his words, and when I heard the sound of his words, I fell into a deep sleep, lying face down with my face toward the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Suddenly, a hand touched me, causing me to drop to my knees and lean forward, resting on the palms of my hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to me, "O Daniel, a man greatly cherished, grasp the meaning of the words I am speaking to you, and stand up straight, for I have been sent to you now." When he spoke these words to me, I rose to my feet, trembling.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "Do not be afraid, Daniel. From the very first day that you resolved to gain understanding and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard. I have come in response to your prayers."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the ruler of the kingdom of Persia opposed me for twenty-one days. But then, behold, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to assist me, and I remained there with the kings of Persia.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have come to explain to you what will happen to your people in the future, for this vision pertains to days yet to come.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had spoken these words to me, I turned my face toward the ground and was unable to speak.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, I saw one who appeared like a human being touch my lips. At that moment, I opened my mouth and spoke to the one standing before me, saying, “My lord, because of this vision, I am overwhelmed with anguish, and I have no strength left.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How can I, your servant, speak with you, my lord? For as for me, I have no strength left in me, and there is no breath remaining in me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then once more, someone who looked like a man came and touched me, and he gave me strength.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel said, "O man greatly loved, do not be afraid. Peace be with you; take courage, yes, be strong." When he spoke to me, I felt strengthened and said, "Speak, my lord, for you have given me strength."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said, "Do you understand why I have come to you? Now I must return to fight against the prince of Persia. When I go, the prince of Greece will come."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will reveal to you what is recorded in the true scripture. However, no one stands with me in these matters except Michael, your prince.</span></p>






</body></html>