<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 39</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s3yelw.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:974c8992-b580-fc40-a1de-418f310ed840" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 39</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, son of man, prophesy against Gog and declare: This is what the Lord GOD says: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, the supreme ruler of Meshech and Tubal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will drive you back and reduce your forces to a mere sixth of their number. I will compel you to advance from the northern regions and bring you against the mountains of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will strike the bow from your left hand and make your arrows fall from your right hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will fall on the mountains of Israel—you, all your troops, and the people with you. I will hand you over to the voracious birds of every kind and to the wild animals of the field to be devoured.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will fall in the open field, for I have declared it, says the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will send fire upon Magog and upon those who live securely in the coastlands, and they will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Thus, I will make my holy name known among my people Israel, and I will no longer allow them to defile my holy name. Then the nations will know that I am the LORD, the Holy One in Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, it has arrived, and it is accomplished, declares the Lord GOD; this is the day I have foretold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The inhabitants of Israel's cities will go out and set fire to the weapons—the shields and bucklers, the bows and arrows, the clubs and spears—and they will burn them as fuel for seven years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, they will not need to gather wood from the fields or cut down trees from the forests, for they will use the weapons as fuel for the fire. They will plunder those who plundered them and loot those who looted them, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day that I will assign to Gog a burial place in Israel, in the valley where travelers pass by, east of the sea. It will be so vast that it will overwhelm those who pass through, and there they will bury Gog and all his vast army. They will name it the Valley of Hamon-Gog.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The house of Israel will spend seven months burying the dead in order to purify the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, all the people of the land will bury them, and it will bring them honor on the day when I display my glory, declares the Sovereign LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will appoint men whose constant duty will be to travel throughout the land and bury those who remain dead on the earth, in order to cleanse it. After seven months have passed, they will conduct a thorough search.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When travelers pass through the land and someone sees a human bone, they must mark the spot with a sign until the burial teams come and bury it in the Valley of Hamon-gog.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The name of the city will also be called *Hamonah* (meaning "Multitude"). In this way, they will purify the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you, son of man, this is what the Lord GOD says: Speak to every bird of the air and to every wild animal of the field, saying, “Gather together and come; assemble from every direction to the sacrifice I am preparing for you—a great sacrifice on the mountains of Israel. There you will eat flesh and drink blood.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will consume the flesh of the mighty and drink the blood of the leaders of the earth—rams, lambs, goats, and bulls, all of them the finest and well-fed animals from Bashan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will eat the fat until you are satisfied and drink the blood until you are filled, from the sacrifice I have prepared for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: "At my table, you will be abundantly provided with horses and chariots, with mighty warriors, and with all kinds of soldiers."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will display my glory among the nations, and all the nations will witness the judgment I have carried out and the power I have exercised over them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the people of Israel will understand that I am the LORD their God from that day onward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The nations will come to understand that the house of Israel was taken into captivity because of their wrongdoing. They sinned against me, and as a result, I turned my face away from them and handed them over to their enemies. Thus, they all fell by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have dealt with them according to their impurity and their sins, and I have turned my face away from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: Now I will restore the fortunes of Jacob and show compassion to the entire house of Israel. I will act with zeal for my holy name,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they have endured their disgrace and all the wrongs they committed against me—when they lived securely in their land, with no one to cause them fear—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I bring them back from the nations and gather them from the lands of their enemies, I will demonstrate my holiness through them in the sight of many nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they will recognize that I am the LORD their God, who allowed them to be taken into exile among the nations. Yet I have brought them back to their own land and have not left any of them behind in captivity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will no longer turn my face away from them, for I have poured out my Spirit upon the house of Israel, declares the Sovereign LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>