<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s3yj65.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:59b1326d-051b-7cf9-cbc9-5eb3927b169c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone sins and commits an offense against the LORD by deceiving their neighbor concerning something entrusted to them, or regarding a pledge, or something taken by fraud, or by cheating their neighbor in any way;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Or if someone finds something that was lost and then lies about it, swearing falsely—in any of these situations where a person acts deceitfully, they are guilty of sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone sins and becomes guilty by committing theft, fraud, or by failing to return something entrusted to them or something they found, they must make full restitution. They are required to return what they took by force, what they obtained through deceit, what was placed in their care, or the lost item they discovered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone has sworn falsely about anything, they must fully restore the original amount and add one-fifth more to it. They are to give this to the person to whom it rightfully belongs on the day they present their guilt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He must bring his guilt offering to the LORD—a flawless ram from the flock, valued according to your assessment—as a guilt offering to the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall make atonement for him before the LORD, and he will be forgiven for any of the things he has done in which he trespassed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Give this command to Aaron and his sons: This is the regulation for the burnt offering. The burnt offering is to remain on the altar hearth throughout the night until morning, and the fire of the altar must be kept burning on it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall dress in his linen robe and wear linen undergarments next to his skin. He shall then remove the ashes left by the fire that consumed the burnt offering on the altar and place them beside the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall remove his garments and put on different ones, then take the ashes outside the camp to a clean place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fire on the altar must be kept burning continuously; it must never go out. Every morning, the priest is to add wood to it, arrange the burnt offering on it, and burn the fat of the peace offerings upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fire must always be kept burning on the altar; it must never be allowed to go out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning the grain offering: Aaron’s descendants are to present it before the LORD in front of the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take a handful of the fine flour from the grain offering, along with its oil and all the frankincense that is on the offering, and burn it on the altar as a pleasing aroma. This act serves as a memorial portion, presented to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining portion of it shall be eaten by Aaron and his sons. It must be eaten with unleavened bread in a sacred place, within the courtyard of the tabernacle of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bread must not be baked with leaven. I have given it to them as their share of the offerings presented to me by fire; it is most holy, just like the sin offering and the guilt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the male descendants of Aaron are to partake of it. This shall be a permanent regulation for your generations regarding the offerings made to the LORD by fire: anyone who comes into contact with them must be holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the offering that Aaron and his sons are to present to the LORD on the day he is anointed: a tenth of an ephah of fine flour as a perpetual grain offering, half of it to be offered in the morning and the other half in the evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It shall be prepared in a pan with oil, and once it is baked, you shall bring it forward. You are to present the baked pieces of the grain offering as a pleasing aroma to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest from among his sons who is anointed to succeed him shall offer it. This is a permanent statute before the LORD; it must be completely burned up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every grain offering presented for the priest must be completely burned up; it is not to be eaten.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell Aaron and his sons this is the regulation concerning the sin offering: The sin offering must be slaughtered in the same place where the burnt offering is slaughtered, in the presence of the LORD. It is most holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest who offers it as a sin offering shall eat it. It must be eaten in a holy place, within the courtyard of the tabernacle of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anything that touches its flesh will become holy. If any of its blood is sprinkled on a garment, you must wash that garment in a sacred place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the clay pot in which it is boiled must be broken. If it is cooked in a bronze pot, the pot must be thoroughly scrubbed and rinsed with water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the male members of the priesthood are permitted to eat from it, for it is most sacred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No sin offering, from which any of the blood is brought into the tent of meeting to make atonement in the holy place, may be eaten. It must be completely burned in the fire.</span></p>






</body></html>