<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Peter Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s3yjci.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:37a26e1a-d814-6ac4-b094-82ed7f62dffa" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Peter Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, just as there were false prophets among the people in the past, so too will there be false teachers among you. These individuals will secretly introduce destructive heresies, even going so far as to deny the Lord who redeemed them. As a result, they will bring swift and certain ruin upon themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many will follow their destructive ways, and because of them, the path of truth will be slandered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And driven by greed, they will exploit you with deceptive words. Their condemnation has been destined for a long time and is not delayed; their destruction is not asleep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if God did not spare the angels who sinned, but cast them into the depths of darkness, bound them in eternal chains, and kept them for the day of judgment;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God did not spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah, the eighth righteous individual, who proclaimed God's truth. He brought the flood upon the world of the wicked, destroying them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And by reducing the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes, He condemned them to utter destruction, making them a stark example of what awaits those who choose to live in ungodliness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He rescued righteous Lot, who was deeply troubled by the immoral and corrupt behavior of the wicked.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For that righteous man, living among them, was deeply troubled in his righteous soul day after day by what he saw and heard of their lawless actions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord knows how to rescue the righteous from trials and to hold the unrighteous in reserve for the day of judgment, when they will face punishment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Above all, this applies to those who indulge in the corrupt desires of their sinful nature and show contempt for authority. They are bold and arrogant, acting on their own selfish impulses, and they do not hesitate to slander those in positions of honor and power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even angels, who are superior in strength and power, do not bring slanderous accusations against them before the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But these individuals, like irrational animals driven by instinct, destined to be captured and destroyed, speak abusively about matters they do not comprehend. In their own corruption, they will utterly perish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will receive the punishment their wrongdoing deserves, for they take pleasure in indulging in wild and reckless behavior even in broad daylight. They are like stains and defects, reveling in their own deceptions as they join you in your feasts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have eyes filled with lust and are never able to stop sinning. They deceive unstable people, and their hearts are trained in greed. They are children under a curse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These individuals have abandoned the correct path and have wandered away, following the example of Balaam, the son of Bosor, who was enticed by the rewards of wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he was rebuked for his wrongdoing: a donkey, unable to speak, was given a human voice and restrained the prophet’s reckless act.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are like dry wells that offer no water, or clouds driven by a storm, promising rain but delivering none. For them, the deepest darkness is reserved forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they speak with arrogant and empty words, they entice others through the desires of the flesh and by exploiting unrestrained indulgence. They target those who had almost completely broken free from the influence of those who live in error.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While they claim to offer freedom, they themselves are enslaved to corruption. For whoever is overpowered by something becomes a slave to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if, after having escaped the corruptions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they become entangled in them again and are overcome, their final condition is worse than it was at the beginning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It would have been better for them never to have come to know the path of righteousness than, after knowing it, to turn away from the sacred command that was given to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What has happened to them aligns with the truth of the proverb: "A dog returns to its vomit," and "A washed pig goes back to wallowing in the mud."</span></p>






</body></html>