<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s41tew.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ff615aea-d9d6-51d2-6f94-15860b3d2645" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the laws and decrees that you must carefully follow in the land which the LORD, the God of your ancestors, is giving you to possess, for as long as you live on the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must completely destroy all the places where the nations you are about to dispossess have worshiped their gods—whether on the high mountains, on the hills, or under every flourishing tree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must tear down their altars, smash their sacred pillars, and burn their Asherah poles with fire. You shall cut down the carved images of their gods and obliterate their names from that place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not act in this way toward the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But to the place which the LORD your God will choose from all your tribes to establish His name there—to His dwelling place—you shall direct your attention, and there you shall go.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There you shall bring your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, the contributions of your hands, your vow offerings, your freewill offerings, and the firstborn of your herds and flocks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There, you shall eat in the presence of the LORD your God, and you shall celebrate all the work of your hands—you and your households—because the LORD your God has blessed you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not act in the same way as we are doing here today, where everyone does whatever seems right in their own eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have not yet reached the place of rest and the inheritance that the LORD your God is giving to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when you cross the Jordan and settle in the land that the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance, and when He grants you rest from all your enemies around you, so that you live in security,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD your God will designate a place where He will cause His name to dwell. There you are to bring everything I command you: your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, the contributions from your hands, and all the special vows you have made to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall celebrate with joy in the presence of the LORD your God—you, your sons and daughters, your male and female servants, and the Levite who lives within your community, since he has no portion or inheritance of his own among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005254"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful not to offer your burnt offerings in any place you happen to see.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005255"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, in the place that the LORD will select within one of your tribes, there you must present your burnt offerings, and there you are to carry out everything that I have commanded you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005256"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you are permitted to slaughter and eat meat within all your towns, whatever your heart desires, according to the blessing the LORD your God has given you. Both the ceremonially unclean and the clean may eat it, just as they would eat the meat of a gazelle or a deer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005257"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not consume the blood; instead, you are to pour it out on the ground like water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005258"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are not permitted to eat within your towns the tithe of your grain, your wine, or your olive oil, nor the firstborn of your herds or flocks, nor any of the offerings you have vowed to give, nor your freewill offerings, or the contributions you present.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005259"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to eat them in the presence of the LORD your God at the place he will choose—you, your sons and daughters, your male and female servants, and the Levites living in your towns. There, in the presence of the LORD your God, you are to celebrate and rejoice in all the work you have accomplished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005260"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful not to neglect the Levite throughout your entire life on the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005261"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the LORD your God expands your territory, as he has promised you, and you say, "I want to eat meat," because you deeply desire to eat meat, you may eat meat, whatever you strongly desire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005262"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the place that the LORD your God has chosen to establish his name is too far from you, then you may slaughter from your herd or flock, which the LORD has given you, as I have instructed you. You may eat within your towns whatever you desire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005263"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as you would eat the meat of a deer or a gazelle, so you may eat these animals; both those who are ceremonially unclean and those who are clean may eat of them equally.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005264"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Make certain that you do not eat the blood, for the blood represents the life; you must not consume the life along with the flesh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005265"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not eat it; you are to pour it out on the ground like water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005266"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not eat it, so that it may go well with you and your children after you, when you do what is right in the eyes of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005267"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must take the sacred offerings that belong to you and the vows you have made, and go to the place that the LORD will choose.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present your burnt offerings, both the meat and the blood, on the altar of the LORD your God. The blood of your sacrifices must be poured out on the altar of the LORD your God, but you may eat the meat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pay close attention and listen carefully to all these words that I am commanding you, so that it may go well for you and for your descendants after you forever, when you do what is good and right in the eyes of the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the LORD your God drives out the nations before you, the ones whose land you are entering to take possession of, and you displace them and settle in their land,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful not to fall into the trap of following their ways after they have been destroyed before you. Do not inquire about their gods, asking, "How did these nations worship their gods? I will do the same as they did."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not act in this way toward the LORD your God, for everything that the LORD detests as an abomination, they have done for their gods. They have even burned their sons and daughters in the fire as offerings to their gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whatever I command you, be careful to do it exactly as instructed. You must not add anything to it or take anything away from it.</span></p>






</body></html>