<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 57</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s473o5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:1d41654b-adda-e76e-c54a-b19db4df3cb8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 57</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The righteous person perishes, yet no one takes it to heart; compassionate and godly people are taken away, and no one considers that the righteous are removed from the coming disaster.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will enter into peace; they will rest in their graves, each one who walked in integrity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Come closer, you offspring of the sorceress, children of the adulterer and the prostitute.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whom are you mocking? Against whom do you open your mouths wide and stick out your tongues? Are you not children of rebellion, offspring of deceit?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are kindling your passions with idols beneath every flourishing tree, sacrificing your children in the valleys, under the clefts of the rocks?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your portion lies among the smooth stones of the riverbed; they are your allotted share. To them you have poured out drink offerings and presented grain offerings. Should I find solace in such things?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have placed your bed on a high and elevated mountain; there you went up to present your offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have set up your memorial behind the doors and doorposts, for you have turned away from me and offered yourself to others. You have gone up to their beds, expanded your couch, and made an agreement with them. You have desired their bed, wherever you saw it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You approached the king with fragrant oils, multiplied your perfumes, and sent your envoys to distant lands. You even humbled yourself to the point of descending to the depths of the grave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have grown weary in the length of your journey, yet you did not say, "There is no hope." You have found strength in your own efforts; therefore, you were not overcome with despair.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who is it that you have feared or dreaded, causing you to lie and fail to remember me or take me to heart? Have I not remained silent for so long that you no longer fear me?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will proclaim your righteousness and your deeds, yet they will not benefit you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you cry out for help, let your allies come to your rescue; but the wind will sweep them all away, and emptiness will claim them. However, whoever places their trust in me will inherit the land and take possession of my holy mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they will say, "Clear the way, clear the way! Prepare the path; remove every obstacle from the road of my people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the exalted and supreme One, who lives forever and whose name is Holy, declares: I dwell in the high and holy place, yet I also reside with those who are humble and broken in spirit. I do this to renew the spirit of the lowly and to restore the hearts of those who are contrite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will not argue with you forever, nor will I remain angry with you always; otherwise, the human spirit would grow faint before me, and the very souls I have created would falter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the sin of his greed, I was angry and struck him. I withdrew and remained angry, yet he continued stubbornly in the path of his own desires.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have observed his ways, and I will heal him; I will guide him and restore comfort to him and to those who mourn for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"I am the one who brings forth the words of praise and peace. Peace, peace to those who are distant and to those who are near," says the LORD, "and I will restore and heal them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the wicked are like a restless, churning sea that cannot find peace, its waters continually stirring up mud and filth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My God declares, "There is no peace for the wicked."</span></p>






</body></html>