<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s4b3qr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cb9a788b-8a59-050b-6b97-2345010aa06e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David gave orders to assemble all the foreigners living in the land of Israel. He appointed stonecutters to prepare dressed stones for the construction of the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David gathered a large quantity of iron for the nails used in the doors of the gates and for the fittings. He also collected an immeasurable amount of bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, there was an abundance of cedar trees, for the Sidonians and the people of Tyre brought large quantities of cedar wood to David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said, "My son Solomon is young and inexperienced, and the house to be built for the Lord must be extraordinarily magnificent, renowned and glorious in all the earth. Therefore, I will now make preparations for it." So David made extensive preparations before his death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he summoned his son Solomon and instructed him to build a house for the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And David said to Solomon, "My son, it was my desire and intention to build a house dedicated to the name of the LORD my God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the word of the LORD came to me, saying, "You have shed much blood and waged great wars. You shall not build a house for my name, because you have spilled so much blood on the earth in my presence."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: a son will be born to you, and he will be a man of peace. I will grant him rest from all his enemies on every side. His name will be Solomon, and during his reign, I will bring peace and tranquility to Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will build a house for my name, and I will regard him as my son, and I will be his father. I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, my son, may the LORD be with you; may He grant you success as you build the house of the LORD your God, just as He has promised concerning you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the LORD grant you wisdom and insight, and may He entrust you with the responsibility of leading Israel, so that you may faithfully uphold the law of the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will succeed if you carefully observe and carry out the statutes and ordinances that the LORD commanded Moses concerning Israel. Be strong and courageous; do not be afraid or discouraged.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, listen carefully: in my time of difficulty, I have gathered for the house of the LORD one hundred thousand talents of gold and one million talents of silver. As for bronze and iron, they are beyond measure, for they are in great abundance. I have also prepared timber and stone, and you may add to these as well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, you have a great number of skilled workers at your disposal—stonecutters, carpenters, and craftsmen of every kind, each skilled in their particular trade.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the gold, silver, bronze, and iron, there is no limit to the quantity. Now rise up and take action, and may the LORD be with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David also instructed all the leaders of Israel to assist his son Solomon, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is not the Lord your God with you? Has He not granted you peace on every side? For He has delivered the inhabitants of the land into my power, and the land has been brought under control before the Lord and before His people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now devote your heart and soul to seeking the LORD your God. Therefore, rise up and build the sanctuary of the LORD God, so that you may bring the ark of the LORD’s covenant and the sacred vessels of God into the house that is to be built for the name of the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>