<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s4erd7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0b74c21b-432e-f70a-0cdb-805c4f5505c2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw an angel descending from heaven, holding the key to the abyss and a massive chain in his hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he seized the dragon, that ancient serpent, who is the Devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he was thrown into the abyss, and it was shut and sealed over him, so that he could no longer deceive the nations until the thousand years were completed. After that, he must be released for a short time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I saw thrones, and those who sat on them were given authority to judge. I also saw the souls of those who had been executed because of their testimony about Jesus and their faithfulness to the word of God. These were the ones who had refused to worship the beast or its image and had not accepted its mark on their foreheads or hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the remaining dead did not come back to life until the thousand years had ended. This is the first resurrection.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Blessed and holy are those who share in the first resurrection. Over them, the second death has no authority, but they will serve as priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with Him for a thousand years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when the thousand years have come to an end, Satan will be released from his prison.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he will go out to deceive the nations that are in the four corners of the earth—Gog and Magog—to gather them together for battle. Their number will be as countless as the sand of the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They advanced across the broad expanse of the earth and surrounded the camp of God’s holy people and the beloved city. But fire descended from heaven, sent by God, and consumed them completely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The devil, who had deceived them, was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur, where the beast and the false prophet also are. There they will be tormented day and night, without end, for all eternity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw a great white throne, and the one seated upon it. The earth and the sky fled from his presence, and no place could be found for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw the dead, both the insignificant and the prominent, standing before God. The books were opened, and another book was also opened—the book of life. The dead were judged based on what was written in the books, according to their deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sea released the dead who were in it, and Death and Hades surrendered the dead who were in their domain. Each person was judged according to their deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And anyone whose name was not found recorded in the book of life was thrown into the lake of fire.</span></p>






</body></html>