<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s4hewq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:925c1ea0-e0bb-0715-25ed-b23890113d6d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When King Hezekiah heard this, he tore his clothes, put on sackcloth, and went to the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He sent Eliakim, who was in charge of the royal household, along with Shebna the secretary and the senior priests, all dressed in sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to him, "This is what Hezekiah says: Today is a day of distress, rebuke, and disgrace. The situation is like a woman in labor, ready to give birth, but she lacks the strength to deliver the child."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Perhaps the LORD your God will take notice of all the words spoken by Rabshakeh, whom the king of Assyria, his master, has sent to insult the living God. The LORD your God may rebuke the words He has heard. Therefore, offer your prayer on behalf of the remnant that still remains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the officials of King Hezekiah went to Isaiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Isaiah said to them, "This is what you must say to your master: 'This is what the LORD says: Do not be afraid of the words you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have insulted me.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will send a powerful force against him, and he will hear alarming news that will compel him to return to his own land. There, I will ensure that he meets his end by the sword in his own country.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Rabshakeh went back and found the king of Assyria engaged in battle against Libnah, for he had heard that the king had left Lachish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he received the report that Tirhakah, the king of Ethiopia, had marched out to fight against him, he sent messengers once more to Hezekiah with this message:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what you shall say to Hezekiah, king of Judah: Do not let your God, in whom you place your trust, mislead you by saying, "Jerusalem will not be handed over to the king of Assyria."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, you have heard how the kings of Assyria have completely devastated all the nations they have conquered. Do you really think you will be spared?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have the gods of the nations rescued those whom my ancestors destroyed—Gozan, Haran, Rezeph, and the people of Eden who lived in Telassar?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, and the kings of Hena and Ivah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah took the letter from the messengers and read it. Then he went up to the house of the LORD and spread the letter out before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah prayed before the LORD and said, "O LORD, God of Israel, who is enthroned above the cherubim, you alone are God over all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made the heavens and the earth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">LORD, incline your ear and listen; open your eyes, LORD, and observe. Hear the words of Sennacherib, who has sent him to insult the living God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Truly, LORD, the kings of Assyria have devastated the nations and their territories.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have thrown their so-called gods into the fire, for they were not truly gods at all—merely the work of human hands, crafted from wood and stone. That is why they have destroyed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, O LORD our God, I earnestly plead with you: deliver us from his power, so that all the kingdoms of the earth may recognize that you alone are the LORD God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Isaiah, the son of Amoz, sent a message to Hezekiah, saying, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: I have heard the prayer you made to me concerning Sennacherib, the king of Assyria."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message the LORD has spoken concerning him: The virgin daughter of Zion holds you in contempt and mocks you; the daughter of Jerusalem shakes her head in derision at you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whom have you insulted and spoken against? Against whom have you raised your voice and arrogantly lifted your eyes? It is against the Holy One of Israel!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through your messengers, you have insulted the Lord, and you have boasted, "With my vast number of chariots, I have ascended to the heights of the mountains, to the remote slopes of Lebanon. I will cut down its tallest cedars and its finest fir trees. I will penetrate its farthest retreats and enter the densest parts of its forests."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have dug wells and drunk from unfamiliar waters, and with the soles of my feet I have dried up all the rivers of fortified places.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have you not heard from long ago how I have accomplished this, and from ancient times that I planned it? Now I have brought it to pass, so that you might reduce fortified cities to crumbling ruins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the people who lived there were weak and powerless, overwhelmed with fear and confusion. They were like the grass in the fields, like tender green plants, like grass growing on rooftops that withers before it can take root, or like grain scorched by the wind before it has a chance to mature.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I am fully aware of where you dwell, your comings and goings, and your fierce anger directed against me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because your rage against me and your uproar have reached my ears, I will put my hook in your nose and my bit in your mouth, and I will turn you back on the path by which you came.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This will be a sign for you: In the first year, you will eat what grows on its own. In the second year, you will eat what springs up from that. But in the third year, you will sow, reap, plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The surviving remnant of the house of Judah will once again take deep root below and produce abundant fruit above.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A remnant will come out of Jerusalem, and survivors will emerge from Mount Zion. The passionate commitment of the LORD of hosts will accomplish this.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says concerning the king of Assyria: He will not enter this city, nor will he shoot an arrow into it. He will not advance against it with a shield, nor will he build siege works to attack it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares: "By the same path he came, he will return, and he will not enter this city."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will protect this city and rescue it, both for my own honor and for the sake of my servant David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That night, the angel of the LORD went out and struck down 185,000 men in the camp of the Assyrians. When the people got up early the next morning, they found all the bodies—every one of them was dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, left and went back, returning to dwell in Nineveh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While he was worshiping in the temple of his god Nisroch, his sons Adrammelech and Sharezer attacked him with swords and killed him. They then fled to the land of Ararat. His son Esar-haddon succeeded him as king.</span></p>






</body></html>