<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Genesis Chapter 34</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s4hnl9.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:49463829-d073-ec03-1045-e53b729cabdd" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Genesis Chapter 34</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Dinah, the daughter of Leah, whom she had borne to Jacob, went out to visit the women of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Shechem, the son of Hamor the Hivite, who was a prominent leader in the region, saw her, he seized her, slept with her, and violated her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he became deeply attached to Dinah, the daughter of Jacob. He loved the young woman and spoke tenderly to her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Shechem spoke to his father Hamor, saying, "Please arrange for me to have this young woman as my wife."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob learned that Shechem had violated his daughter Dinah. At that time, his sons were out in the fields tending to the livestock. Jacob remained silent and did not act until his sons returned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Hamor, the father of Shechem, went out to meet Jacob in order to speak with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob’s sons returned from the field as soon as they heard what had happened. The men were deeply distressed and furious because Shechem had committed a disgraceful act against Israel by lying with Jacob’s daughter—something that should never have been done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hamor spoke with them, saying, "My son Shechem deeply desires your daughter. Please, allow her to become his wife."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Form alliances with us through marriage: give your daughters to us as wives, and take our daughters as wives for yourselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are welcome to live among us. The land is open to you; settle wherever you wish, engage in trade, and acquire property for yourselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shechem spoke to her father and her brothers, saying, "Please grant me favor in your sight, and whatever you ask of me, I will give."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ask me for whatever amount of dowry and gifts you desire, and I will give you whatever you request. But grant me the young woman to be my wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob’s sons responded to Shechem and his father Hamor with deceit, saying this because Shechem had violated their sister Dinah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied, "We cannot do such a thing—to give our sister to a man who is uncircumcised. That would bring disgrace upon us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, we will agree to your proposal on this condition: If you will become like us, by having every male among you circumcised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In that case, we will give our daughters to you in marriage, and we will take your daughters as wives for ourselves. We will live together with you and become a single, united people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you refuse to listen to us and will not agree to be circumcised, then we will take our daughter and leave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hamor and his son Shechem found their proposal agreeable and acceptable.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The young man did not hesitate to act, for he was deeply in love with Jacob’s daughter. He was also the most respected and honorable member of his father’s entire household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hamor and his son Shechem went to the entrance of their city and spoke to the men of the city, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These men are at peace with us; therefore, let them live in the land and conduct trade here, for the land is indeed spacious enough for them. Let us take their daughters as wives for ourselves and give them our daughters in marriage.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men will agree to live with us and become one people only on this condition: that every male among us is circumcised, just as they are circumcised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Won’t their livestock, their possessions, and all their animals become ours? We only need to agree to their terms, and they will live among us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the men who went out through the gate of their city listened to Hamor and his son Shechem. Every male among them, all who passed through the city gate, was circumcised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the third day, when the men of the city were still in pain, two of Jacob’s sons, Simeon and Levi—Dinah’s brothers—each took his sword, advanced on the city with confidence, and killed every male there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They killed Hamor and his son Shechem with the sword, rescued Dinah from Shechem’s house, and left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob's sons came upon the slain and plundered the city, for the men had dishonored their sister.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They seized their sheep, their cattle, their donkeys, and everything that was in the city, as well as all that was in the fields.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They captured all their possessions, their children, and their wives, and plundered everything that was in their homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, "You have brought trouble upon me, making me a stench among the people of the land, the Canaanites and the Perizzites. Since I am few in number, they may gather together against me, attack me, and destroy both me and my household."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they said, "Should he treat our sister like a prostitute?"</span></p>






</body></html>