<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 25</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s4pc1x.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9f807519-ef00-b278-7708-9c957c308781" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 25</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel died, and all the Israelites gathered together to mourn for him. They buried him at his home in Ramah. After this, David set out and went down to the wilderness of Paran.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a man in Maon whose property was in Carmel. He was a very wealthy man, owning three thousand sheep and a thousand goats. At that time, he was in Carmel shearing his sheep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man’s name was Nabal, and his wife’s name was Abigail. She was a woman of great wisdom and striking beauty, but Nabal was harsh and wicked in his actions. He was from the family of Caleb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David heard while he was in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David sent out ten young men and instructed them, saying, "Go up to Carmel and visit Nabal. When you meet him, greet him respectfully in my name."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You should say to the one who is prosperous, "May peace be with you, peace be with your household, and peace be with all that belongs to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now I have heard that you have shearers. When your shepherds were with us, we did not harm them, and nothing of theirs went missing the entire time they were in Carmel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ask your young men, and they will tell you. Therefore, let the young men find favor in your sight, for we have come on a good day. Please give whatever you have at hand to your servants and to your son David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David’s servants arrived, they relayed to Nabal all these words on David’s behalf and then waited for his response.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nabal responded to David’s servants, saying, “Who is David? And who is this son of Jesse? These days there are many servants who abandon their masters and run off on their own.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Should I then take the food and drink that I have prepared, along with the meat I have slaughtered for my shearers, and give it to men whose origins I do not even know?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David’s servants turned back and returned to him, reporting everything that had been said.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to his men, "Each of you, strap on your sword." So every man fastened on his sword, and David also strapped on his own. About four hundred men followed David, while two hundred stayed behind to guard their supplies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, one of the young men informed Abigail, Nabal’s wife, saying, “Listen, David sent messengers from the wilderness to greet our master, but he insulted them harshly.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men treated us very well, and we were not harmed, nor did we lose anything during the time we spent with them while we were in the fields.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They served as a protective barrier for us both day and night, throughout the entire time we were with them tending the sheep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, understand and carefully consider what you must do, for harm has been decisively planned against our master and against his entire household. He is such a wicked and worthless man that no one can reason with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abigail quickly prepared two hundred loaves of bread, two skins of wine, five sheep that had been slaughtered and prepared, five measures of roasted grain, a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of pressed figs. She loaded all of these onto donkeys.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She said to her servants, "Go ahead of me; I will follow you." But she did not tell her husband Nabal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As she rode on the donkey, she descended by the cover of the hill, and suddenly, David and his men were coming down toward her. She encountered them there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David had said, "Surely, I have protected everything this man owned in the wilderness, ensuring that nothing of his was lost, yet he has repaid me with evil for the good I have done."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May God deal severely with the enemies of David, and even more so, if by morning I leave alive any male belonging to him, down to the last one.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Abigail saw David, she quickly dismounted from her donkey, fell facedown before him, and bowed low to the ground in reverence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She fell at his feet and said, "Let the guilt be on me, my lord, please. Allow your servant to speak in your presence, and listen to the words of your servant."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I beg you, my lord, do not pay attention to this worthless man, Nabal, for he is just as his name suggests—his name means "fool," and foolishness defines him. But I, your servant, did not see the young men you sent, my lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, my lord, as surely as the LORD lives and as your soul lives, since the LORD has kept you from shedding blood and from taking revenge into your own hands, may your enemies and those who seek to harm you be like Nabal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, may this gift that your servant has brought to my lord be given to the young men who accompany my lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I beg you, please forgive the offense of your servant. For the LORD will surely establish a lasting dynasty for my lord, because my lord fights the battles of the LORD, and no wrongdoing has been found in you all your days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man has risen to pursue you and seek your life, but the life of my lord will be securely bound in the care of the LORD your God. As for the lives of your enemies, He will hurl them away, as if flung from the pocket of a sling.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen, when the LORD has fulfilled all the good things He has promised concerning you, my lord, and has established you as ruler over Israel,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May this not bring you sorrow or distress, my lord, nor trouble your conscience, as if you had shed blood without cause or sought revenge for yourself. But when the Lord has shown you favor and blessed you, please remember me, your servant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And David said to Abigail, "May the LORD, the God of Israel, be praised, who sent you to meet me today."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May your advice be praised, and may you be blessed, for you have kept me today from shedding blood and from taking revenge with my own hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Truly, as surely as the LORD, the God of Israel, lives—the One who has prevented me from harming you—if you had not hurried and come to meet me, by morning light not a single male belonging to Nabal would have been left alive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David accepted from her hand what she had brought him and said to her, "Go back to your home in peace. See, I have listened to your plea and have granted your request."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abigail went to Nabal and found him hosting a grand feast in his house, as lavish as a king’s banquet. Nabal was in high spirits, for he was heavily intoxicated. Because of this, she decided not to tell him anything, whether significant or trivial, until the next morning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But in the morning, when the effects of the wine had worn off from Nabal, and his wife had told him all that had happened, his heart failed within him, and he became like a stone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">About ten days later, the LORD struck Nabal, and he died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David heard that Nabal had died, he said, "Praise the LORD, who has defended me against the insults of Nabal and has kept me, his servant, from doing wrong. The LORD has brought Nabal’s own wickedness down upon his head." Then David sent messengers to Abigail, asking her to become his wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David’s servants arrived to meet Abigail in Carmel, they said to her, “David has sent us to you, to ask you to become his wife.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She stood up, then bowed low with her face to the ground and said, "Here I am, your servant, ready to serve even by washing the feet of my lord’s servants."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abigail quickly got up and rode on a donkey, accompanied by five of her female servants. She followed David’s messengers and later became his wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David also took Ahinoam from Jezreel as his wife, and both she and Abigail became his wives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Saul had given his daughter Michal, who was David's wife, to Phalti, the son of Laish, from Gallim.</span></p>






</body></html>