<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/english_master.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Copyright Notice</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 <meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s4uib8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:91667fc8-7c39-6473-fb75-13039813349c" />
</head>
<body>
<h4 lang="en" style="visibility: hidden; font-size: 0;"><a id="ref_Toc00000000C">Copyright Notice</a></h4>

<div class="copyright-notice">
<p lang="en"><strong>Covenant of Grace Bible: A Contemporary KJV Translation</strong></p>

<p lang="en">Copyright © 2025 by eGreener Press&#160;(a division of Fadii LLC)</p>

<p lang="en">This is a Ministry Edition of Covenant of Grace Bible: A Contemporary KJV Translation. It is provided as a free resource for ministry use and is not for sale. Certain rights granted for ministry use. See permissions below.</p>

<p lang="en">First Edition</p>

<p lang="en">This edition is an AI-assisted translation of the Holy Bible, based on the King James Version (KJV). The text was enhanced using <strong>AI technology</strong> and meticulously reviewed by human editors to ensure accuracy and faithfulness to the original text.</p>

<p lang="en"><strong>Limited Permission to Share and Print:</strong></p>

<p lang="en">The author grants permission for this book to be shared and printed for non-commercial, educational purposes only, including personal study, church services, and Bible study groups.</p>

<p lang="en">This permission extends to reproducing and distributing copies of the book, in whole or in part, provided that the following conditions are met:</p>

<ul>
	<li><strong>Attribution:</strong> Proper credit must be given to the author and publisher, including the title of the work. (Example: "From Covenant of Grace Bible: A Contemporary KJV Translation by eGreener Press, Copyright © 2025")</li>
	<li><strong>Non-Commercial Use:</strong> This work may not be used for any commercial purpose whatsoever, including but not limited to sale, resale, or distribution for profit.</li>
	<li><strong>No Derivative Works:</strong> This work may not be altered, transformed, or built upon in any way. Creating derivative works, including but not limited to translations, abridgments, adaptations, or annotations, is strictly prohibited.</li>
	<li><strong>No Electronic Distribution for Commercial Purposes:</strong> While sharing for non-commercial purposes is permitted, electronic distribution of this work for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited without the express written consent of the copyright holder.</li>
</ul>

<p lang="en">All other rights are reserved.</p>
</div>


</body></html>