<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Obadiah Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s4v7f2.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d305de03-7373-39ef-8e19-2c79f5f222a6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Obadiah Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the vision of Obadiah. This is what the Lord GOD says concerning Edom: We have received a message from the LORD, and a messenger has been sent among the nations, saying, "Rise up, and let us join together to wage war against her."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, I have made you insignificant among the nations; you are utterly despised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your arrogance has led you astray, you who live in the rocky cliffs, whose home is set on high. You say in your heart, "Who can bring me down to the earth?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if you elevate yourself like the eagle and make your home among the stars, I will bring you down from there, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If thieves came to you, or robbers by night—how utterly you are ruined!—would they not steal only until they had taken enough? If grape harvesters came to you, would they not leave behind some grapes?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How thoroughly Esau's possessions are ransacked! How completely his hidden treasures are uncovered!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All your allies have led you to the edge of ruin; those who were at peace with you have betrayed you and overpowered you. Even those who shared your bread have set a trap beneath you. There is no discernment or understanding in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"On that day," declares the LORD, "will I not eliminate the wise men from Edom and remove understanding from the mountain of Esau?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your warriors, O Teman, will be filled with terror, so that every man from the mountain of Esau will be destroyed in the slaughter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of your violent actions against your brother Jacob, disgrace will overwhelm you, and you will be completely destroyed forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the day when you stood by and did nothing, when strangers took his people captive and foreigners entered his gates, casting lots for Jerusalem, you were just like one of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you should not have gloated over your brother on the day of his misfortune, nor should you have rejoiced over the people of Judah when they were destroyed. You should not have spoken arrogantly in the time of their distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You should not have entered the gate of my people on the day of their disaster. Indeed, you should not have gloated over their suffering on the day of their calamity, nor should you have seized their possessions on the day of their distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You should not have stood at the crossroads to cut off those who were fleeing, nor should you have handed over those who survived in their time of trouble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The day of the Lord is close at hand for all nations. Just as you have done to others, so it will be done to you; your deeds will come back upon your own head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as you have drunk upon my holy mountain, so too shall all the nations drink without ceasing. They will drink, they will gulp it down, and they will become as though they had never existed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But on Mount Zion there will be deliverance, and it will be a place of holiness; and the descendants of Jacob will reclaim their inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The house of Jacob will be like a fire, and the house of Joseph like a flame, while the house of Esau will be like dry stubble. They will ignite and consume them, and no one from the house of Esau will remain, for the LORD has declared it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people from the south will take possession of the hill country of Esau, and those from the western lowlands will conquer the land of the Philistines. They will seize the fields of Ephraim and the fields of Samaria, and the tribe of Benjamin will take possession of Gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The exiles of this company of the Israelites will take possession of the land of the Canaanites as far as Zarephath, and the exiles of Jerusalem who are in Sepharad will inherit the cities of the Negev.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Deliverers will arise on Mount Zion to bring judgment upon the mountain of Esau, and the kingdom will belong to the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>