<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s4vamr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:bc8360ef-4cfe-356e-cff4-6e141de9c834" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once again, the Israelites did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and as a result, the LORD handed them over to the power of the Philistines for forty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a man from Zorah, belonging to the tribe of Dan, whose name was Manoah. His wife was unable to conceive and had not borne any children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel of the LORD appeared to the woman and said to her, "Listen carefully, you are currently unable to conceive and have not borne children, but you will become pregnant and give birth to a son."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, I urge you to be cautious: do not drink wine or any alcoholic beverage, and do not eat anything that is unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for you will conceive and give birth to a son. No razor shall ever touch his head, because the boy is to be dedicated to God as a Nazirite from the time he is in the womb. He will be the one to begin rescuing Israel from the power of the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the woman went and told her husband, saying, "A man of God came to me, and his appearance was like that of an angel of God—so awe-inspiring that it filled me with fear. But I did not ask him where he came from, nor did he tell me his name."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he said to me, "Listen, you will conceive and give birth to a son. Now, you must not drink wine or any other fermented drink, nor eat anything unclean, because the boy will be dedicated to God as a Nazirite from the time he is in the womb until the day of his death."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Manoah prayed to the LORD, saying, "O Lord, please let the man of God you sent come to us again and instruct us on what we should do for the child who is to be born."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God listened to Manoah’s plea, and the angel of God returned to the woman as she was sitting in the field. However, her husband Manoah was not with her at that time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman hurried and ran to her husband, telling him, "Look, the man who came to me the other day has appeared to me again!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Manoah got up and followed his wife. When he came to the man, he asked, "Are you the one who spoke to my wife?" The man replied, "I am."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Manoah replied, "May your words come true. How should we raise the child, and what should we do for him?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel of the LORD said to Manoah, "Concerning everything I instructed the woman, she must be careful to follow it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She must not consume anything that comes from the vine, nor drink wine or any fermented drink, nor eat anything that is unclean. She is to observe everything I have commanded her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Manoah said to the angel of the LORD, "Please, stay with us a while, so that we may prepare a young goat for you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel of the LORD said to Manoah, "Even if you insist on keeping me here, I will not eat your food. But if you prepare a burnt offering, you must offer it to the LORD." For Manoah did not realize that he was speaking to an angel of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Manoah said to the angel of the LORD, "What is your name, so that when your words come true, we may honor you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the angel of the LORD said to him, "Why do you ask about my name in this way? It is beyond understanding."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Manoah took a young goat along with a grain offering and presented it on a rock as an offering to the LORD. As they watched, the angel performed an extraordinary act, and Manoah and his wife witnessed it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the flames from the altar rose up toward heaven, the angel of the LORD ascended in the midst of the fire. Manoah and his wife witnessed this and, overwhelmed, they fell face down to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the angel of the LORD did not appear again to Manoah or his wife. At that moment, Manoah realized that the one who had spoken to them was indeed an angel of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Manoah said to his wife, "We are certain to die, because we have seen God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But his wife replied to him, "If the LORD had intended to kill us, He would not have accepted the burnt offering and grain offering from our hands, nor would He have shown us all these things. And He certainly would not have revealed such things to us as He has done now."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman gave birth to a son and named him Samson. The child grew, and the LORD blessed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the Spirit of the LORD began to stir him at various times in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.</span></p>






</body></html>