<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s4xm7w.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8d6118a5-1842-7912-d766-94781fabe2f6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So all of Israel was recorded according to their genealogies, and indeed, these records were documented in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. They were taken into exile in Babylon because of their unfaithfulness and disobedience.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The original inhabitants who settled in their allotted territories and cities were the Israelites, the priests, the Levites, and the temple servants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In Jerusalem lived some of the descendants of Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Uthai, the son of Ammihud, who was the son of Omri, who was the son of Imri, who was the son of Bani, from the descendants of Perez, the son of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from the Shilonites: Asaiah the firstborn, along with his sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from the descendants of Zerah: Jeuel and his relatives, totaling six hundred and ninety.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Benjamin: Sallu, the son of Meshullam, who was the son of Hodaviah, who was the son of Hasenuah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ibneiah, the son of Jeroham; Elah, the son of Uzzi, who was the son of Michri; and Meshullam, the son of Shephathiah, who was the son of Reuel, who was the son of Ibnijah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And their relatives, according to their family lines, numbered nine hundred and fifty-six. All these men were leaders of their ancestral households within their families.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Among the priests were Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, and Jachin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, who was the son of Meshullam, who was the son of Zadok, who was the son of Meraioth, who was the son of Ahitub, the overseer of the house of God;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Adaiah, the son of Jeroham, who was the son of Pashur, who was the son of Malchijah; and Maasiai, the son of Adiel, who was the son of Jahzerah, who was the son of Meshullam, who was the son of Meshillemith, who was the son of Immer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And their relatives, who were the leaders of their ancestral families, numbered one thousand seven hundred and sixty. These were highly capable individuals, skilled in the work of serving in the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Among the Levites, there was Shemaiah, the son of Hasshub, who was the son of Azrikam, who was the son of Hashabiah, from the descendants of Merari.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal, along with Mattaniah, the son of Micah, who was the son of Zichri, who was the son of Asaph.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Obadiah, the son of Shemaiah, who was the son of Galal, who was the son of Jeduthun, along with Berechiah, the son of Asa, who was the son of Elkanah—these men lived in the settlements of the Netophathites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The gatekeepers were Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahiman, and their relatives. Shallum served as the leader among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These men had previously served as gatekeepers at the eastern entrance of the king's palace. They were part of the divisions of the Levites, assigned to guard the gates.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shallum, the son of Kore, who was the son of Ebiasaph, who was the son of Korah, along with his relatives from the family of his father—the Korahites—were entrusted with the duties of service, specifically as guardians of the gates of the tabernacle. Their ancestors had also been appointed to oversee the assembly of the LORD and were responsible for guarding the entrance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, had been their leader in earlier times, and the LORD was with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zechariah, the son of Meshelemiah, was the gatekeeper at the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All those who were selected to serve as gatekeepers at the entrances numbered two hundred and twelve. These individuals were recorded according to their family lineage in their respective villages, having been appointed to their established positions by David and Samuel the seer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they and their descendants were entrusted with the responsibility of guarding the gates of the house of the LORD, that is, the house of the tabernacle, according to their assigned divisions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The gatekeepers were stationed in four directions: to the east, west, north, and south.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And their fellow Levites, who lived in their surrounding villages, were to join them every seven days, taking turns to serve alongside them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For these Levites, the four chief gatekeepers, held their appointed positions and were responsible for overseeing the chambers and treasuries of the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They camped around the house of God because the responsibility for its care was entrusted to them, and it was their duty to open it every morning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of them were assigned the responsibility of overseeing the utensils used in worship, ensuring they were brought in and out according to their specific count.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of them were also assigned to oversee the sacred vessels, all the utensils of the sanctuary, as well as the fine flour, wine, oil, frankincense, and spices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And some of the sons of the priests prepared the fragrant oil from the spices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mattithiah, a Levite and the firstborn son of Shallum the Korahite, was entrusted with the permanent responsibility of overseeing the items prepared in the pans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Other members of their family, who were descendants of the Kohathites, were assigned the responsibility of preparing the sacred bread of the Presence every Sabbath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the singers, the leading heads of the Levite families, who stayed in the temple chambers and were exempt from other duties because they were devoted to their work day and night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These leading ancestors of the Levites held positions of prominence throughout their generations, and they resided in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In Gibeon lived Jehiel, the founder of Gibeon, whose wife was named Maachah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His firstborn son was Abdon, followed by Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, and Nadab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mikloth was the father of Shimeam. They lived alongside their relatives in Jerusalem, near their fellow family members.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ner was the father of Kish, and Kish was the father of Saul. Saul became the father of Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab, and Esh-baal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan’s son was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal became the father of Micah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, and Ahaz.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaz was the father of Jarah; Jarah was the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri was the father of Moza.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moza was the father of Binea; Binea was the father of Rephaiah; Rephaiah was the father of Eleasah; and Eleasah was the father of Azel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Azel had six sons, and their names were Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. These were the sons of Azel.</span></p>






</body></html>