<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Genesis Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5123s.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:86314fa1-6b4a-9c80-7c6f-7b377d41aee4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Genesis Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As evening fell, two angels arrived in Sodom. Lot was sitting at the city gate, and when he saw them, he stood up to greet them. He bowed low, his face to the ground, showing them deep respect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, “Please, my lords, come into your servant’s house and stay the night. Wash your feet, and then you can rise early and continue on your journey.” But they replied, “No, we will spend the night in the street.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He urged them strongly, and they turned aside to him and entered his house. He prepared a meal for them, baking unleavened bread, and they ate together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before they went to bed, the men of the city—the men of Sodom—surrounded the house, both young and old, every single person from every part of the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they called out to Lot and said to him, "Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us, so that we may have relations with them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Lot stepped outside to meet them and closed the door behind him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "Please, my brothers, do not act so wickedly."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen now, I have two daughters who have never been with a man. Please, let me bring them out to you, and you may do with them as you see fit. But do not harm these men, for they have come under the protection of my roof.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "Step aside!" Then they added, "This man came here as a foreigner, and now he wants to act as our judge! We’ll treat you worse than we treat them." They aggressively pushed against Lot and moved closer to breaking down the door.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the men reached out their hands, brought Lot inside the house with them, and closed the door.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they struck the men who were at the entrance of the house with blindness, both the young and the old, so that they grew exhausted trying to find the door.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men said to Lot, "Do you have anyone else here? Bring out your sons-in-law, your sons, your daughters, and anyone else you have in the city. Lead them out of this place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We are going to destroy this place, for the outcry against its people has grown so great before the LORD that He has sent us to bring about its destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Lot went out and spoke to his sons-in-law, who were pledged to marry his daughters, saying, "Get up and leave this place, for the LORD is about to destroy this city!" But his sons-in-law thought he was joking and did not take him seriously.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When morning came, the angels urgently urged Lot, saying, "Get up, take your wife and your two daughters who are here with you, or you will be destroyed when the city is punished for its wickedness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Lot hesitated, the men took hold of his hand, his wife’s hand, and the hands of his two daughters—because the LORD was showing him mercy—and led them out of the city, placing them safely outside its limits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they had brought them outside, he said, "Flee for your lives! Do not look back, and do not stop anywhere in the plain. Escape to the mountains, or you will be destroyed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Lot pleaded with them, saying, "Please, no, my lords!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look now, your servant has found favor in your eyes, and you have shown great kindness to me by sparing my life. But I cannot flee to the mountains, for fear that disaster will overtake me and I will die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, this city here is close enough to escape to, and it is small. Please, let me flee there—isn’t it just a small place?—so that I may survive and my life will be spared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to him, "Listen, I have granted your request in this matter as well; I will not destroy this city about which you have spoken."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hurry, escape to that place, for I cannot do anything until you arrive there. That is why the city was named Zoar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sun had risen over the earth when Lot arrived in Zoar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD caused burning sulfur and fire to rain down from the heavens upon Sodom and Gomorrah, sent by the LORD Himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He utterly destroyed those cities, along with the entire plain, all the inhabitants of the cities, and everything that grew on the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But his wife turned and looked back behind him, and she was transformed into a pillar of salt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abraham rose early in the morning and went to the place where he had stood in the presence of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He turned his gaze toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward the entire region of the plain, and as he looked, he saw that the smoke from the land was rising like the smoke from a furnace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When God brought destruction upon the cities of the plain, He remembered Abraham and rescued Lot from the midst of the devastation. As God overthrew the cities where Lot had been living, He ensured Lot’s escape from the catastrophe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Lot departed from Zoar and settled in the mountains, taking his two daughters with him, because he was afraid to remain in Zoar. He made his home in a cave, along with his two daughters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The older daughter said to the younger, "Our father is old, and there is no man in the land to marry us, as is the custom everywhere.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Come, let us give our father wine to drink, and then we will lie with him, so that we may keep our father's lineage alive."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That night, they gave their father wine to drink. The older daughter went in and lay with her father, but he was unaware when she lay down or when she got up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, the firstborn said to her younger sister, "Listen, last night I slept with our father. Let’s get him to drink wine again tonight, and then you go in and lie with him. This way, we can preserve our father’s lineage through his offspring."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That night, they again gave their father wine to drink. The younger daughter went in and slept with him, but he was unaware when she lay down or when she got up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Both of Lot's daughters became pregnant by their father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The firstborn gave birth to a son and named him Moab. He is the ancestor of the Moabites, as they are known to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The younger daughter also gave birth to a son and named him Ben-ammi. He became the ancestor of the Ammonites, and his descendants remain to this day.</span></p>






</body></html>