<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Romans Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s52xn6.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:af674e6c-cdb1-5a55-f07a-953cc98d017f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Romans Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle and set apart for the proclamation of the gospel of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that God had previously announced through his prophets in the sacred Scriptures.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord, who was born as a descendant of David in terms of His human nature;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he was powerfully demonstrated to be the Son of God through the Spirit of holiness, by his resurrection from the dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through Him, we have received grace and the calling to be apostles, to bring about the obedience of faith among all nations for the sake of His name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You, too, are among those who have been called by Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To all who are in Rome, beloved by God and called to be His holy people: May grace and peace be yours from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">First, I give thanks to my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is being proclaimed throughout the entire world.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God, whom I serve wholeheartedly in proclaiming the good news of His Son, is my witness that I constantly remember you in my prayers without fail.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am making this request, hoping that now at last, by God's will, I may have a successful journey to come to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I deeply desire to see you so that I may share with you some spiritual blessing, in order to strengthen and establish you in your faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This means that I may be encouraged together with you through the shared faith that both you and I possess.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I do not want you to be unaware, brothers and sisters, that I have often intended to come to you (though I have been prevented until now), so that I might also see some fruit among you, just as I have among the other Gentiles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am obligated both to the Greeks and to the non-Greeks, both to the wise and to the unwise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, with all my heart and to the fullest extent of my ability, I am eager to proclaim the good news to you who are in Rome as well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, because it is the power of God that brings salvation to everyone who believes—first to the Jew, and then to the Gentile.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For in it the righteousness of God is revealed, beginning and ending with faith, as it is written: "The righteous will live by faith."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The anger of God is being made known from heaven against all godlessness and wickedness of people, who suppress the truth by their unrighteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For what can be known about God is evident to them, because God has made it clear to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The unseen qualities of God—his eternal power and divine nature—have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world, being understood through what he has made. As a result, people are without excuse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give him thanks. Instead, their thoughts became futile, and their senseless hearts were plunged into darkness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Claiming to be wise, they instead became foolish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They exchanged the glorious majesty of the immortal God for images resembling mortal humans, birds, four-legged animals, and crawling creatures.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, God allowed them to follow the impurity of their own desires, leading them to degrade and dishonor their bodies among themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They exchanged the truth about God for falsehood and honored and served created things rather than the Creator, who is eternally worthy of praise. Amen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this reason, God allowed them to fall into shameful and degrading passions. Even their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, the men abandoned natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another. Men committed shameful acts with other men, and as a result, they received within themselves the due penalty for their deviation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And just as they refused to acknowledge God or keep him in their thoughts, God abandoned them to a depraved mindset, so that they engaged in actions that are improper and shameful.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are utterly consumed by every kind of unrighteousness—sexual immorality, evil, greed, and malice. Their lives are marked by envy, murder, strife, deceit, and hostility. They are gossips,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Slanderers, those who despise God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, creators of wicked schemes, and rebellious toward their parents.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They lack understanding, break agreements, show no natural affection, are unforgiving, and without mercy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are fully aware of God’s decree that those who practice such things deserve death. Yet, not only do they continue to do these things themselves, but they also take pleasure in others who do them.</span></p>






</body></html>