<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s55e79.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cc97ebb6-7610-edc6-ccb1-d66ad43b5c42" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and say to them: If someone unintentionally sins by violating any of the LORD's commands regarding things that are forbidden, and they do something that is against one of these commands—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the anointed priest sins, bringing guilt upon the people, he must bring to the LORD a young bull without defect as a sin offering for the sin he has committed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall bring the bull to the entrance of the tent of meeting, into the presence of the LORD. Then he shall place his hand on the bull’s head and slaughter it before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest who has been anointed shall take some of the bull's blood and bring it into the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall dip his finger into the blood and sprinkle some of the blood seven times in the presence of the LORD, in front of the veil that separates the sanctuary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take some of the blood and place it on the horns of the altar of fragrant incense that stands before the LORD in the tent of meeting. Then he shall pour out all the rest of the bull’s blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is located at the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall remove all the fat from the bull used for the sin offering—the fat that covers the internal organs, as well as all the fat that is attached to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall remove the two kidneys along with the fat that is on them, which is near the loins, and the fatty lobe attached to the liver, together with the kidneys.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as it was removed from the bull of the peace offering sacrifice, the priest shall burn these parts on the altar of the burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to take the entire bull—its hide, all its flesh, along with its head, legs, internal organs, and waste—and remove them outside the camp to a ceremonially clean place, where they will be burned on the wood fire. This is a purification offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire bull must be taken outside the camp to a clean place, where the ashes are disposed of, and there it shall be burned on the wood with fire. It is at the place where the ashes are poured out that the bull must be burned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the entire community of Israel unintentionally sins, and the matter escapes the notice of the assembly, and they violate any of the LORD's commandments by doing something that is forbidden, they will be guilty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the sin they have committed becomes known, the entire community must present a young bull as a sin offering and bring it before the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of the community shall place their hands on the head of the bull in the presence of the LORD, and the bull shall then be slaughtered before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest who has been anointed shall take some of the bull's blood and bring it into the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall dip his finger into some of the blood and sprinkle it seven times in the presence of the LORD, in front of the veil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take some of the blood and apply it to the horns of the altar that stands before the LORD in the tent of meeting. Then he shall pour out all the remaining blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is located at the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall remove all the fat from the animal and offer it up in smoke on the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall treat this bull in the same manner as he treated the bull for the sin offering—he must follow the same procedure. The priest will make atonement for them, and they will be forgiven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall take the bull outside the camp and burn it, just as he burned the first bull. This is the sin offering for the entire congregation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a ruler sins unintentionally by violating any of the commandments of the LORD his God concerning what must not be done, and thus becomes guilty,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Or if someone becomes aware of the sin they have committed, they must bring an offering: a male goat without any defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall place his hand on the head of the goat and slaughter it in the designated area where the burnt offerings are killed before the LORD. This is a sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take some of the blood from the sin offering with his finger and apply it to the horns of the altar of burnt offering. Then he shall pour out the remaining blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall burn all the fat on the altar, just as the fat of the peace offering is burned. The priest will then make atonement for him concerning his sin, and it will be forgiven him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any ordinary person sins unintentionally by doing something against any of the LORD's commandments—things that are not to be done—and thus becomes guilty,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone becomes aware of the sin they have committed, they must bring an offering: a female goat without any defect, as a sacrifice for the sin they have committed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person shall place their hand on the head of the sin offering, and then slaughter the sin offering in the designated area where the burnt offering is prepared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take some of the blood with his finger and apply it to the horns of the altar of burnt offering. Then he shall pour out all the remaining blood at the base of the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall remove all the fat from it, just as the fat is removed from the sacrifice of peace offerings. The priest shall then burn it on the altar as a pleasing aroma to the LORD. Through this act, the priest will make atonement for him, and his sin will be forgiven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone offers a lamb as a sin offering, they must present a female lamb that is without any defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person shall place their hand on the head of the sin offering and slaughter it as a sin offering in the designated place where the burnt offering is killed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take some of the blood from the sin offering with his finger and apply it to the horns of the altar of burnt offering. Then he shall pour out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall remove all the fat from it, just as the fat is removed from the lamb of the peace offering. The priest shall then burn it on the altar as an offering made by fire to the LORD. In this way, the priest will make atonement for the sin he has committed, and it will be forgiven him.</span></p>






</body></html>