<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s59gu8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:29b406b6-e6af-a3f9-96c0-10dcd2bb27de" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, Nahash, the king of the Ammonites, died, and his son succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said, "I will show kindness to Hanun, the son of Nahash, because his father showed kindness to me." So David sent messengers to express his sympathy and comfort Hanun concerning the death of his father. David’s servants then went to the land of the Ammonites to Hanun, to offer him comfort.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the leaders of the Ammonites said to Hanun, "Do you really think David is honoring your father by sending these men to comfort you? Haven’t his servants come to you to investigate, to overthrow, and to spy out the land?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, Hanun seized David’s servants, shaved off half their beards, cut their garments off at the waist, exposing their buttocks, and then sent them away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then some people went and informed David about how the men had been treated. David sent messengers to meet them, for the men were deeply humiliated. The king said, "Stay in Jericho until your beards have grown back, and then return."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Ammonites realized that they had become repugnant to David, Hanun and the Ammonites sent a thousand talents of silver to hire chariots and horsemen from Mesopotamia, as well as from Syria-maachah and Zobah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they hired thirty-two thousand chariots, along with the king of Maacah and his army, who came and camped near Medeba. Meanwhile, the Ammonites assembled from their cities and advanced to engage in battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David received word of this, he dispatched Joab along with the entire army of his most valiant warriors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Ammonite forces advanced and positioned themselves for battle at the city gate, while the kings who had come to assist them remained separately in the open field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Joab realized that the battle was closing in on him from both the front and the rear, he selected some of the best troops from all of Israel and positioned them to face the Arameans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining troops he placed under the command of his brother Abishai, and they prepared to engage in battle against the Ammonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "If the Syrians prove too strong for me, then you will come to my aid. But if the Ammonites prove too strong for you, then I will come to your assistance."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be strong and courageous, and let us act with bravery for the sake of our people and for the cities of our God. May the LORD do what He deems right in His eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joab and the troops with him advanced toward the Syrians to engage in battle, and the Syrians fled before them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Ammonites saw that the Arameans had fled, they also retreated before Abishai, Joab’s brother, and withdrew into the city. After this, Joab returned to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Syrians realized they were being defeated by Israel, they sent messengers to summon the Syrians who were stationed beyond the Euphrates River. Shophach, the commander of Hadadezer’s army, led them into battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David received word of this, he gathered all of Israel, crossed over the Jordan, and advanced against them, positioning his forces for battle. Once David had arranged his troops to confront the Arameans, they engaged him in combat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Syrians fled before the forces of Israel, and David struck down seven thousand of their chariot fighters and forty thousand foot soldiers. He also killed Shophach, the commander of their army.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the servants of Hadadezer realized that they had been defeated by Israel, they sought peace with David and submitted to serve him. From that time on, the Arameans refused to assist the Ammonites any longer.</span></p>






</body></html>