<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 28</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5c1ib.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0dc798ba-d861-fc97-e86a-0fc8a825b97b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 28</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: If you listen carefully to the voice of the LORD your God, and faithfully keep and obey all His commandments that I am giving you today, then the LORD your God will raise you up and place you above all the nations of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All these blessings will come upon you and overtake you, if you listen carefully to the voice of the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be blessed in the city, and you will be blessed in the countryside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the children you bear, the crops of your fields, and the offspring of your livestock—your herds of cattle and flocks of sheep—be abundantly blessed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May your basket and your provisions be abundantly blessed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be blessed when you enter, and you will be blessed when you depart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will ensure that your enemies who rise up against you are defeated before your eyes. They will attack you from one direction, but they will flee from you in seven different ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will decree His blessing upon you in your storehouses and in all the work you undertake. He will bless you in the land that the LORD your God is giving to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will confirm you as a holy people belonging to Him, just as He has promised you, if you obey the commandments of the LORD your God and live according to His ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the peoples of the earth will see that you are identified with the name of the LORD, and they will stand in awe of you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will abundantly bless you with prosperity, with the fruit of your children, the offspring of your livestock, and the produce of your land, in the territory which the LORD swore to your ancestors to give to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will open for you His abundant storehouse, the heavens, to provide rain for your land at the proper time and to bless all the work of your hands. You will lend to many nations, but you will not need to borrow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will establish you as the head, not the tail; you will always be at the top, never at the bottom—if you listen to and carefully follow the commandments of the LORD your God that I am giving you today, and if you faithfully obey them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not turn away from any of the words I am commanding you today, neither to the right nor to the left, by following other gods and serving them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if you refuse to listen to the voice of the LORD your God and fail to carefully follow all His commandments and statutes that I am giving you today, then all these curses will come upon you and overwhelm you:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be cursed in the city, and you will be cursed in the countryside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your basket and your food supply will be cursed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be cursed in the fruit of your womb, the produce of your land, the offspring of your cattle, and the young of your flocks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be cursed when you enter, and you will be cursed when you depart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will bring upon you curses, turmoil, and condemnation in everything you undertake to do, until you are utterly ruined and swiftly perish, all because of the evil of your actions, through which you have abandoned me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will cause a plague to cling to you until it has completely destroyed you from the land you are entering to possess.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will strike you with wasting disease, fever, inflammation, and severe burning heat. He will bring upon you the sword, blight, and mildew, and they will pursue you relentlessly until you are destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sky above you will become like bronze, and the ground beneath you will turn to iron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will turn the rain of your land into fine dust and powder; it will descend from the sky upon you until you are utterly destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will cause you to be defeated by your enemies. You will march out against them in one direction, but you will flee from them in seven different ways. You will be scattered and driven into all the kingdoms of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your dead body will become food for all the birds of the sky and the wild animals of the earth, and there will be no one to drive them away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will afflict you with the boils of Egypt, with painful tumors, with festering sores, and with an unrelenting itch, from which you will find no cure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will strike you with madness, blindness, and overwhelming confusion of heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will grope about at noon as a blind person fumbles in the darkness, and you will not succeed in your endeavors. You will be constantly oppressed and plundered, with no one to rescue you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will become engaged to a woman, but another man will take her as his own. You will build a house, but you will not live in it. You will plant a vineyard, but you will not enjoy its fruit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your ox will be slaughtered before your eyes, and you will not eat any of it. Your donkey will be taken by force right in front of you, and it will not be returned to you. Your sheep will be handed over to your enemies, and there will be no one to save them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your sons and daughters will be handed over to another nation, and your eyes will grow weary as you constantly long for them throughout the day, powerless to do anything about it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The produce of your land and the results of all your labor will be consumed by a nation you do not know. You will endure constant oppression and crushing hardship.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, you will be driven to madness by the terrifying sights your eyes will witness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will afflict you with painful boils that cannot be healed, spreading from the soles of your feet to the top of your head, striking you in the knees and legs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will bring you and the king you appoint over you to a nation that neither you nor your ancestors have known. There, you will serve other gods—gods made of wood and stone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will become a source of shock, a subject of ridicule, and a common saying among all the nations where the LORD will take you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will take much seed out to the field, but you will harvest only a small amount, because the locusts will devour it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will plant vineyards and tend to them, but you will not drink the wine or harvest the grapes, for worms will consume them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will have olive trees throughout all your territory, but you will not anoint yourself with the oil, because your olive trees will drop their fruit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will have sons and daughters, but you will not be able to enjoy them, for they will be taken away into captivity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All your trees and the produce of your land will be devoured by the locusts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The foreigner living among you will rise higher and higher above you, while you will sink lower and lower.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will lend to you, but you will not lend to him. He will be the leader, and you will be the follower.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, all these curses will come upon you, pursue you, and overtake you until you are utterly destroyed, because you did not listen to the voice of the LORD your God or obey His commandments and statutes that He gave you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This shall serve as a sign and a remarkable testimony against you, and it will remain a lasting witness against your descendants forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you did not serve the LORD your God with joy and a glad heart, in light of the abundance of all things He provided,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you will serve the enemies whom the LORD will send against you. You will endure hunger, thirst, nakedness, and a lack of all necessities. He will place an iron yoke upon your neck until He has brought about your destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will bring against you a nation from far away, from the distant ends of the earth, as swift as an eagle in flight—a nation whose language you will not understand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A nation with a harsh and ruthless demeanor, which will show no respect for the elderly nor show kindness to the young.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will consume the produce of your livestock and the harvest of your land until you are utterly ruined. He will leave you no grain, wine, or oil, nor the offspring of your cattle or the flocks of your sheep, until he has brought about your destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will lay siege to you in all your towns until your high and fortified walls, in which you placed your trust, collapse throughout your entire land. He will besiege you in every one of your towns across all the land that the LORD your God has given you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be forced to eat the fruit of your own body—the flesh of your sons and daughters, whom the LORD your God has given you—during the siege and desperate times when your enemies oppress you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that even the most gentle and refined man among you, who is accustomed to comfort and ease, will look with resentment toward his brother, toward the wife he loves, and toward the children who remain to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that he will not share with any of them the flesh of his children whom he eats, because he has nothing left during the siege and the desperate hardship your enemies inflict on you in all your cities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The refined and delicate woman among you, who would not dare to place the sole of her foot on the ground because of her sensitivity and softness, will look with resentment toward the husband she loves, as well as toward her son and her daughter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning her newborn child that emerges from her womb, and concerning the children she will bear: she will secretly eat them out of desperate need during the siege and dire distress that your enemy will bring upon you within your city gates.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">58 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you do not diligently follow and carry out all the words of this law written in this book, so that you may revere this majestic and awe-inspiring name—the Lord your God—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">59 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD will bring extraordinary calamities upon you, and upon your descendants—severe and enduring disasters, grievous and persistent illnesses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">60 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, He will bring upon you all the diseases of Egypt, which you feared, and they will cling to you persistently.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">61 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moreover, every kind of sickness and every form of plague not recorded in this book of the law, the LORD will bring upon you, until you are completely destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">62 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be reduced to a small number, though you were once as numerous as the stars in the sky. This will happen because you refused to listen to the voice of the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">63 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: Just as the LORD delighted in bringing you prosperity and increasing your numbers, so the LORD will take delight in bringing ruin upon you and destroying you. You will be uprooted from the land you are entering to possess, and you will be utterly removed from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">64 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will scatter you among all the nations, from one end of the earth to the other. There you will serve other gods—gods made of wood and stone—that neither you nor your ancestors have ever known.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">65 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Among these nations, you will find no peace, nor will the soles of your feet have any rest. Instead, the LORD will give you there a heart filled with fear, eyes dimmed with despair, and a mind overwhelmed with sorrow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">66 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your life will be in constant uncertainty before you; you will live in fear both day and night, with no confidence in your survival.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">67 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the morning you will say, "If only it were evening!" and in the evening you will say, "If only it were morning!" because of the dread in your heart and the terrifying things you will witness with your own eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">68 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will bring you back to Egypt by ship, by the route I told you that you would never see again. There you will be sold to your enemies as male and female slaves, but no one will be willing to buy you.</span></p>






</body></html>