<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5ce7c.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:282688d5-ee73-5072-32c4-7a610873f9da" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the people of Israel set out, and the entire community assembled as one, from Dan in the north to Beersheba in the south, including the region of Gilead. They gathered before the LORD at Mizpah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of all the people, representing every tribe of Israel, gathered together in the assembly of God’s people—four hundred thousand armed men ready for battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Benjamin heard that the Israelites had gone up to Mizpah. Then the Israelites said, "Explain to us how this evil act came about."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levite, the husband of the woman who had been killed, responded and said, "I entered Gibeah, which belongs to the tribe of Benjamin, along with my concubine, to spend the night."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Gibeah rose up against me, surrounded the house at night, and intended to kill me. They assaulted my concubine, and she died as a result.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I took my concubine, cut her into pieces, and sent her remains throughout all the territory of Israel’s inheritance, for they have committed a vile and disgraceful act in Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, all of you are part of the people of Israel; now share your thoughts and offer your guidance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the people stood together as one and declared, "None of us will return to our tents, and none of us will go back to our homes."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, this is what we will do concerning Gibeah: we will determine by lot who will go up and attack it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We will select ten men out of every hundred from all the tribes of Israel, a hundred out of every thousand, and a thousand out of every ten thousand, to gather provisions for the troops. This way, when they arrive at Gibeah in Benjamin, they can carry out the punishment for the outrageous act that has been committed in Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the men of Israel assembled together against the city, united as a single, cohesive force.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The tribes of Israel sent messengers throughout the territory of Benjamin, demanding, "What is this terrible act of wickedness that has been committed among you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, hand over to us those wicked men in Gibeah, so that we may execute them and remove this evil from Israel. But the people of Benjamin refused to listen to the plea of their fellow Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Benjamin assembled from their cities and came together at Gibeah, preparing to go out and fight against the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the men of Benjamin from their cities were counted, totaling twenty-six thousand who were armed with swords. This number did not include the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were also counted separately as seven hundred specially chosen men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Among all these people, there were seven hundred specially selected men who were left-handed; each one could sling a stone with such precision that they could hit a target as small as a hair's breadth without missing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Israel, not including those from Benjamin, were counted and numbered four hundred thousand men who were armed with swords. All of these were trained and ready for battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites rose up and went to the house of God to seek guidance from the Lord. They asked, "Who among us should go first to fight against the people of Benjamin?" The Lord answered, "Judah shall go first."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites got up early in the morning and set up their camp facing Gibeah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Israel marched out to wage war against Benjamin, and they arranged their forces in battle formation to confront them at Gibeah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Benjamin advanced from Gibeah and struck down twenty-two thousand Israelites that day, leaving them utterly defeated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Israel rallied their courage and prepared themselves for battle once more, positioning themselves in the same formation as they had on the first day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites went up and wept before the LORD until evening. They sought the LORD's guidance, asking, "Should we go out again to fight against our brothers, the people of Benjamin?" The LORD answered, "Go and fight against them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites advanced against the Benjaminites on the second day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Benjamin advanced against them from Gibeah on the second day and struck down eighteen thousand more of the Israelites, all of whom were armed with swords.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the Israelites and the entire community went up to the house of God. They wept and sat there in the presence of the LORD, fasting that day until evening. They also presented burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites sought guidance from the LORD, for the ark of the covenant of God was present among them in those days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Phinehas, the son of Eleazar and grandson of Aaron, stood before the ark of the covenant in those days and asked, "Should we go out once more to fight against our brothers, the people of Benjamin, or should we stop?" And the LORD answered, "Go up, for tomorrow I will hand them over to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the Israelites set up ambushes all around Gibeah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the third day, the Israelites advanced against the people of Benjamin and positioned themselves in battle formation facing Gibeah, just as they had done before.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Benjamin advanced against the Israelite forces and were lured away from the city. They began to attack and kill some of the people, as they had done before, along the main roads—one leading up to Bethel and the other to Gibeah in the open country. They struck down about thirty Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Benjamin said, "They are being defeated before us, just as they were the first time." But the Israelites said, "Let us retreat and lure them away from the city onto the main roads."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the men of Israel rose from their positions and formed their battle lines at Baal-tamar. Meanwhile, the ambush forces of Israel emerged from their hiding places, specifically from the open fields near Gibeah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then ten thousand specially selected men from all of Israel advanced against Gibeah, and the battle was fierce. However, they did not realize that disaster was close at hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord struck down the people of Benjamin before Israel, and on that day the Israelites killed twenty-five thousand one hundred men of Benjamin, all of whom were armed with swords.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Benjamin realized they were being defeated, for the men of Israel had retreated before them, relying on the ambush they had set near Gibeah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ambush forces quickly advanced and launched an attack on Gibeah. They moved swiftly, spreading out and striking the entire city with the sword, leaving no one untouched.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There had been a prearranged signal between the men of Israel and those lying in ambush: they were to send up a great column of smoke from the city as a sign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the men of Israel began to retreat during the battle, the men of Benjamin started to strike down and kill about thirty of them. They said to themselves, "They are surely being defeated before us, just as they were in the first battle."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But as the flames began to rise from the city, forming a towering column of smoke, the Benjamites turned and saw that the fire from the city was ascending all the way to the heavens.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the men of Israel turned back, the men of Benjamin were struck with terror, for they realized that disaster had overtaken them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, they turned and fled before the men of Israel, retreating toward the wilderness. But the battle pursued them, and those who came out of the cities were struck down in their midst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, they surrounded the Benjamites on all sides, pursued them, and easily overwhelmed them near Gibeah, driving them toward the east.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from the tribe of Benjamin, eighteen thousand men fell; all of them were courageous warriors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They turned and fled toward the wilderness, heading for the rock of Rimmon. Along the way, five thousand men were struck down on the main roads. The pursuers chased them relentlessly as far as Gidom, where they killed another two thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the total number of Benjaminites who fell was twenty-five thousand men, all of whom were skilled warriors and wielded the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness, reaching the rock of Rimmon, where they remained for four months.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Israel turned back against the people of Benjamin and struck them down with the sword, killing not only the men in every city but also the livestock and everything else they found. They also set fire to all the cities they came across, leaving them in ruins.</span></p>






</body></html>