<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Daniel Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5e8o7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8fc05723-0791-20fa-b5c9-d8afa3126bf8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Daniel Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the first year of Belshazzar’s reign as king of Babylon, Daniel had a dream and visions that came to him as he lay on his bed. He recorded the dream and recounted the essence of its message.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Daniel spoke and said, "In my vision during the night, I saw the four winds of heaven stirring up the great sea."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then four immense creatures emerged from the sea, each one distinct from the others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The first creature resembled a lion and had wings like those of an eagle. I watched until its wings were torn off, and it was lifted up from the ground. It was made to stand on its feet like a human, and the heart of a man was given to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw another beast, a second one, resembling a bear. It stood up on one side, and it had three ribs in its mouth, between its teeth. A voice said to it, "Rise up and devour much flesh."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, I looked and saw another creature resembling a leopard. It had four wings like those of a bird on its back, and the beast also had four heads. Authority and power were granted to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, I saw in my visions during the night, and behold, a fourth beast appeared, terrifying and dreadful, and exceedingly powerful. It had massive iron teeth; it devoured and crushed its prey, and trampled what remained under its feet. This beast was different from all the others that had come before it, and it had ten horns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I observed the horns, and suddenly, another small horn emerged among them. Before it, three of the original horns were uprooted and removed. Then I noticed that this horn had eyes resembling those of a human and a mouth that spoke boastful and arrogant words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked until the thrones were set in place, and the Ancient of Days took His seat. His clothing was as white as snow, and the hair of His head was like pure wool. His throne blazed like fiery flames, and its wheels burned with intense fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A river of fire flowed out and came forth from his presence. Thousands upon thousands served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The court was convened, and the records were opened.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I observed this because of the loud and boastful words spoken by the horn. I continued to watch until the beast was killed, its body destroyed, and handed over to be consumed by the burning fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding the other beasts, their authority to rule was removed, but their lives were extended for a specific period of time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In my vision during the night, I saw one like a son of man coming with the clouds of heaven. He approached the Ancient of Days and was presented before Him. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was granted authority, honor, and sovereign power, so that all peoples, nations, and languages would serve him. His authority is an eternal authority that will never cease, and his kingdom is one that will never be destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, Daniel, was deeply troubled in my spirit within my body, and the visions that filled my mind greatly disturbed me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I approached one of those who were standing nearby and asked him to explain the true meaning of all this. He then told me and helped me understand the interpretation of these things.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These four great beasts represent four kings who will rise to power from the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the holy ones of the Most High will receive the kingdom and take possession of it forever—yes, for all eternity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I sought to understand the true nature of the fourth beast, which was different from all the others—utterly terrifying, with iron teeth and bronze claws. It devoured, crushed, and trampled whatever remained under its feet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning the ten horns on its head, and the other horn that emerged, causing three of them to fall—specifically, that horn which had eyes and a mouth that spoke boastful words, and whose appearance was more imposing than the others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked, and that horn waged war against the holy ones and overpowered them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Until the Eternal One, the Ancient of Days, arrived, and judgment was granted to the holy people of the Most High. Then the appointed time came, and the holy ones took possession of the kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "The fourth beast represents a fourth kingdom that will arise on the earth. It will be different from all the other kingdoms and will devour the entire earth, trampling it down and crushing it into pieces."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the ten horns from this kingdom represent ten kings who will rise to power. After them, another king will emerge, different from the first ones, and he will overthrow three of those kings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will speak arrogant words against the Most High and oppress the holy people of the Most High, seeking to alter the appointed times and laws. They will be delivered into his power for a period of time, times, and half a time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The court will convene, and his authority will be taken away, to be completely abolished and brought to an end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sovereignty, power, and greatness of all the kingdoms under heaven will be given to the people who belong to the holy ones of the Most High. His kingdom is an eternal kingdom, and all rulers and authorities will serve and obey Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This concludes the matter. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts deeply troubled me, and my appearance changed because of it. Yet I kept the matter hidden in my heart.</span></p>






</body></html>