<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5euok.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:665ce520-ee99-dbde-549b-c68589cf998b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall also say to the Israelites: If any person among the Israelites or any foreigner living among them gives any of their offspring to Molech, they must certainly be put to death. The members of the community shall stone them to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will turn my attention against that man and remove him from among his people, because he has given some of his offspring to Molech, thereby defiling my sanctuary and dishonoring my holy name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if the people of the land deliberately turn a blind eye to the man when he gives any of his offspring to Molech, and they fail to put him to death,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If that man and his family persist in such actions, I will turn my attention against them and remove them from the community. This includes all who follow his example and engage in the worship of Molech, committing spiritual unfaithfulness. They will be cut off from their people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any person turns to consult mediums or spiritists, seeking guidance from them and engaging in such practices, I will firmly oppose that individual and will cut them off from the community of my people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Set yourselves apart and live in purity, for I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must observe my decrees and carry them out. I am the LORD, who sets you apart as holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who curses their father or mother must certainly be put to death. By cursing their father or mother, they bear the guilt of their own blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man who commits adultery with another man’s wife—that is, with the wife of his neighbor—both the adulterer and the adulteress must certainly be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man who has sexual relations with his father’s wife has violated his father’s honor. Both of them must certainly be put to death; their guilt for this act rests upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man has sexual relations with his daughter-in-law, both of them must certainly be put to death. They have committed a disgraceful act; their guilt is their own responsibility.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man has sexual relations with another man as he would with a woman, both of them have committed a detestable act. They must be put to death; their guilt is their own responsibility.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man marries both a woman and her mother, it is a depraved act. Both he and they must be put to death by burning, so that such wickedness will not exist among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man has sexual relations with an animal, he must certainly be put to death, and you shall also kill the animal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a woman has sexual relations with an animal, both the woman and the animal must be put to death. Their bloodguilt is upon them; they are responsible for their own deaths.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man takes his sister—whether his father’s daughter or his mother’s daughter—and they see each other’s nakedness, it is a disgraceful act. They must be cut off from their community. He has exposed his sister’s nakedness and will bear the guilt of his sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man lies with a woman during her menstrual period and exposes her nakedness, he has uncovered the source of her flow, and she has revealed the flow of her blood. Both of them shall be cut off from their community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not have sexual relations with your mother’s sister or your father’s sister, for such an act dishonors a close relative. Those who do this will bear the guilt of their sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man has sexual relations with his uncle’s wife, he has dishonored his uncle. Both of them will bear the guilt of their sin and will die without children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man marries his brother’s wife, it is a disgraceful act. He has dishonored his brother by exposing his private life. As a result, they will remain without children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must therefore observe all my statutes and all my ordinances, and carry them out, so that the land where I am bringing you to live does not expel you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not follow the ways of the nations that I drove out before you, for they practiced all these things, and I detested them for it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I have declared to you: You will inherit their land, and I will give it to you as your possession—a land abundant with milk and honey. I am the LORD your God, who has set you apart from all other peoples.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must therefore distinguish between clean animals and unclean, and between unclean birds and clean. Do not defile yourselves by any animal, bird, or any creature that moves on the ground, which I have set apart as unclean for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must be holy to me, because I, the LORD, am holy, and I have set you apart from other nations to belong to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man or woman who consults a spirit medium or practices witchcraft must certainly be put to death. They are to be stoned with stones, and their bloodguilt will be upon them.</span></p>






</body></html>