<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5foqh.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:428df6da-f724-4de6-820c-98c1f3a52839" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the time came for the LORD to take Elijah up to heaven in a whirlwind, Elijah and Elisha set out together from Gilgal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah said to Elisha, "Please stay here, for the LORD has sent me to Bethel." But Elisha replied, "As surely as the LORD lives and as you yourself live, I will not leave you." So they went together to Bethel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The group of prophets who were in Bethel came out to Elisha and said to him, "Are you aware that the LORD is going to take your master away from you today?" He replied, "Yes, I know. Be silent."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah said to him, "Elisha, please stay here, for the LORD has sent me to Jericho." But Elisha replied, "As surely as the LORD lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you." So they went on together to Jericho.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The group of prophets who were in Jericho approached Elisha and said to him, “Are you aware that the LORD is going to take your master away from you today?” He replied, “Yes, I know. Be silent.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah said to him, "Please stay here, for the LORD has sent me to the Jordan." But he replied, "As surely as the LORD lives and as your soul lives, I will not leave you." So the two of them continued on together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Fifty men from the company of the prophets went and stood at a distance to observe, while the two of them stood by the Jordan River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah took his cloak, rolled it up, and struck the waters with it. The waters divided to the left and to the right, and the two of them crossed over on dry ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had crossed over, Elijah said to Elisha, "Tell me what I can do for you before I am taken away from you." Elisha replied, "Please, let me inherit a double portion of your spirit."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "You have asked for something difficult. However, if you see me as I am taken from you, it will be granted to you. But if you do not see me, it will not happen."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they continued walking and conversing, suddenly a chariot of fire and horses of fire appeared, separating the two of them. Then Elijah was taken up into heaven in a whirlwind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha saw it and cried out, "My father, my father! The chariots and horsemen of Israel!" Then he saw Elijah no more. Overcome with grief, Elisha took hold of his own clothes and tore them in two.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He picked up Elijah's cloak, which had fallen from him, and turned back. Then he stood by the bank of the Jordan River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha picked up the cloak that had fallen from Elijah, struck the water with it, and cried out, "Where is the LORD, the God of Elijah?" When he struck the water, it divided to the right and to the left, and Elisha crossed over.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the group of prophets who were stationed at Jericho saw Elisha, they exclaimed, "The spirit of Elijah now rests on Elisha!" They approached him, bowed down to the ground before him, and paid him homage.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to him, "Listen, we have fifty capable men here among your servants. Please let them go and search for your master. It’s possible that the Spirit of the LORD has lifted him up and set him down on some mountain or in some valley." But he replied, "Do not send them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they pressed him so persistently that he felt embarrassed, he said, "Go ahead and send them." So they sent fifty men, who searched for three days but could not find him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they returned to him (for he had stayed in Jericho), he said to them, "Did I not tell you not to go?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of the city said to Elisha, "Please, my lord, as you can see, this city is in a pleasant location, but the water is bad, and the land is unproductive."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Bring me a new jar and put salt in it." So they brought it to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He went out to the source of the waters and threw the salt into it, saying, "This is what the LORD declares: I have purified these waters. From now on, they will no longer cause death or make the land unproductive."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the waters were purified and remain so to this day, just as Elisha had declared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He then traveled from that place to Bethel. As he was walking along the road, some young boys came out of the city and began to taunt him, shouting, "Go away, you baldhead! Go away, you baldhead!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He turned around, looked at them, and pronounced a curse on them in the name of the LORD. Then two female bears came out of the woods and mauled forty-two of the children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He then went from there to Mount Carmel, and afterward returned to Samaria.</span></p>






</body></html>