<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5n2m4.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:875caaa2-6019-9667-d260-b79cf03ff701" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A shoot will spring up from the stump of Jesse, and a branch will grow from his roots. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Spirit of the LORD will rest upon him— the Spirit of wisdom and insight, the Spirit of guidance and strength, the Spirit of knowledge and reverence for the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he will grant him discernment and wisdom rooted in the reverence of the LORD. He will not make judgments based solely on what he sees with his eyes, nor will he decide matters merely by what he hears with his ears.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will judge the poor with fairness and defend the humble of the earth with justice. He will strike the earth with the authority of his words, and by the power of his speech, he will bring an end to the wicked.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Righteousness will be like a belt around his waist, and faithfulness will encircle him like a sash.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wolf will live peacefully with the lamb, and the leopard will rest beside the young goat. The calf, the young lion, and the fattened animal will be together, and a small child will guide them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cow and the bear will graze together; their young will lie down side by side. The lion will eat straw like the ox.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the nursing child will play near the cobra’s hole, and the weaned child will reach his hand into the viper’s den.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will not harm or destroy anywhere on my holy mountain, for the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the LORD, just as the waters completely cover the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, a descendant of Jesse will arise as a banner for the nations; the Gentiles will seek him, and his place of rest will be filled with glory. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day that the Lord will once again extend his hand, a second time, to reclaim the remnant of his people who remain—those who are left in Assyria, Egypt, Pathros, Cush, Elam, Shinar, Hamath, and from the distant islands of the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will raise a banner as a signal for the nations, and he will gather the exiles of Israel, bringing together the scattered people of Judah from every corner of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The jealousy of Ephraim will cease, and the enemies of Judah will be destroyed. Ephraim will no longer envy Judah, and Judah will no longer trouble Ephraim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But they will swiftly advance against the Philistines in the west; they will plunder the people of the east as well. They will seize control over Edom and Moab, and the Ammonites will submit to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will completely dry up the waters of the Egyptian sea, and with His powerful wind, He will sweep His hand over the river, dividing it into seven streams, so that people can cross over on dry ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And there will be a clear and safe path for the remaining survivors of his people who are left, leading them back from Assyria, just as there was for Israel on the day they came up out of the land of Egypt.</span></p>






</body></html>