<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5qmgr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:73f7f2af-fdec-d857-ed4f-1f2c65b7714f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David left that place and fled to the cave of Adullam. When his brothers and all his father’s household heard about it, they went down to join him there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All those who were in distress, in debt, or discontented gathered around him, and he became their leader. About four hundred men joined him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David then went to Mizpeh in Moab and said to the king of Moab, "Please allow my father and mother to stay with you until I find out what God has planned for me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He presented them to the king of Moab, and they stayed with him for the entire time that David remained in the stronghold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prophet Gad said to David, "Do not stay in the stronghold; leave and go into the land of Judah." So David left and went to the forest of Hareth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Saul received word that David had been found, along with the men who were with him (Saul was staying in Gibeah, seated under a tamarisk tree in Ramah, holding his spear in his hand, with all his servants standing around him),</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul said to the officials who were standing around him, "Listen now, you men of Benjamin! Will Jesse’s son give each of you fields and vineyards? Will he appoint all of you as commanders over thousands and commanders over hundreds?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do all of you conspire against me? Is there no one among you who will tell me that my son has made a pact with Jesse’s son? Is there not one of you who feels concern for me or reveals to me that my son has turned my own servant against me, setting him as an enemy to ambush me, as is happening even now?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Doeg the Edomite, who was in charge of Saul’s servants, responded and said, “I saw Jesse’s son come to Nob, to Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He sought guidance from the LORD on his behalf, provided him with food, and also gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king sent messengers to summon Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, along with all his father’s household—the priests who were in Nob. And they all came before the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said, "Listen now, son of Ahitub." And he replied, "I am here, my lord."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said to him, "Why have you conspired against me, you and Jesse’s son, by giving him bread and a sword, and by inquiring of God on his behalf, so that he might rise up against me and ambush me, as he is doing today?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Ahimelech replied to the king, "Who among all your servants is as loyal as David? He is your son-in-law, carries out your commands, and is held in honor in your household."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Did I just now begin to seek guidance from God on his behalf? Far be it from me! May the king not hold anything against me, your servant, or against my father’s household, for I knew absolutely nothing about this matter, whether in part or in full.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king declared, "You will certainly be put to death, Ahimelech—you and your entire family."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king commanded the guards who were stationed around him, saying, "Turn and kill the priests of the LORD, because they have sided with David. They knew about his escape and did not inform me." However, the king’s servants refused to raise their hands to attack the priests of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king then commanded Doeg, "Turn and attack the priests." So Doeg the Edomite turned and struck down the priests, killing eighty-five men that day—all of whom wore the linen ephod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He struck down Nob, the city of the priests, with the sword, killing everyone—men and women, children and infants, as well as oxen, donkeys, and sheep—all by the edge of the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One of Ahimelech’s sons, who was the son of Ahitub and named Abiathar, managed to escape and fled to join David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Abiathar informed David that Saul had killed the priests of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Abiathar, "I knew on that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would certainly report it to Saul. I am responsible for the death of all the members of your father's household."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Stay with me, and do not be afraid. Whoever seeks to take my life is also seeking yours, but with me, you will be kept safe.</span></p>






</body></html>