<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5ubyh.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c292886a-ffdd-99d6-41aa-2e03391f83f6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a man from the tribe of Benjamin named Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah. He was a Benjamite, a man of great standing and influence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He had a son named Saul, a young man of exceptional quality and handsome appearance. There was no one among the Israelites more impressive than he. From his shoulders upward, he stood taller than anyone else in the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The donkeys belonging to Kish, Saul’s father, had gone missing. So Kish said to his son Saul, “Take one of the servants with you, and go look for the donkeys.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He journeyed through the hill country of Ephraim and crossed through the region of Shalisha, but they did not find what they were seeking. Then he traveled through the area of Shalim, and still, they were not there. Afterward, he passed through the territory of the Benjamites, but again, they did not find what they were looking for.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived in the land of Zuph, Saul said to the servant who was with him, "Let’s go back now, or else my father might stop worrying about the donkeys and start worrying about us instead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to him, "Listen, there is a man of God in this city, and he is highly respected. Everything he says comes true without fail. Let us go to him now; perhaps he can guide us on the path we should take."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul said to his servant, "But look, if we go, what should we bring to the man? Our supplies of bread are gone, and we have no gift to offer the man of God. What do we have with us?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The servant responded to Saul again, saying, "Look, I have with me a quarter of a shekel of silver. I will give it to the man of God so that he can tell us which way we should go."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In earlier times in Israel, when someone wanted to seek guidance from God, they would say, "Come, let us go to the seer," because what we now call a prophet was once referred to as a seer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul said to his servant, "You have spoken well; come, let us go." So they went to the city where the man of God was.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they walked up the hill toward the city, they encountered some young women coming out to draw water. They asked them, "Is the seer here?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied, "Yes, he is here. In fact, he is just ahead of you. Hurry now, because he arrived in the city today. There is a sacrifice for the people today at the high place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As soon as you enter the city, you will immediately find him before he goes up to the high place to eat. The people will not eat until he arrives, because he blesses the sacrifice; afterward, those who are invited eat. So now, go up, for you will find him at this very time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They entered the city, and as they were making their way through it, Samuel was coming out to meet them, on his way to the high place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD had privately revealed to Samuel a day before Saul arrived, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tomorrow, around this time, I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin. You are to anoint him as leader over my people Israel, so that he may deliver them from the power of the Philistines. For I have seen the suffering of my people, and their cry for help has reached me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Samuel saw Saul, the LORD said to him, "This is the man I told you about! He is the one who will rule over my people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Saul approached Samuel at the city gate, he said, "Please tell me, where is the seer's house?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel replied to Saul, saying, "I am the seer. Go ahead of me to the high place, for today you will eat with me. Tomorrow I will send you on your way and will tell you everything that is on your heart."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not worry about the donkeys that went missing three days ago, for they have been found. And as for you, who holds all the desire of Israel? Is it not you and your entire family?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul replied, "Am I not a Benjamite, from the smallest tribe of Israel? And is my family not the least significant of all the families in the tribe of Benjamin? Why, then, do you speak to me in this way?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel took Saul and his servant and led them into the dining hall. He seated them in the place of honor among the invited guests, who numbered about thirty people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Samuel said to the cook, "Bring the portion I gave you, the one I told you to set aside for yourself."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cook brought the shoulder of meat, along with the portion that was on it, and placed it before Saul. Samuel said, "Look, this portion has been set aside for you. Take it and eat, for it has been reserved for you since I said, 'I have invited the people.'" So Saul ate with Samuel that day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they came down from the high place into the city, Samuel spoke with Saul on the rooftop of the house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They got up early in the morning, and as the day began to dawn, Samuel called Saul to the rooftop, saying, "Get up, so I may send you on your way." Saul rose, and both he and Samuel went outside together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007419"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they were walking toward the edge of the city, Samuel said to Saul, "Tell your servant to go ahead of us" (and the servant went on), "but you stay here for a moment, so I can reveal to you the message from God."</span></p>






</body></html>