<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5vj5y.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8622ae6e-c009-6aad-d9d3-916e66ba84bc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the Spirit of God came upon Azariah, the son of Oded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He went out to meet Asa and said to him, "Listen to me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin: The LORD is with you as long as you remain faithful to Him. If you seek Him, He will be found by you; but if you abandon Him, He will abandon you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For a long time, Israel has been without the true God, without a priest to instruct them, and without the guidance of the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when they, in their distress, turned to the LORD, the God of Israel, and earnestly sought Him, He allowed Himself to be found by them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that period, there was no safety for anyone, whether they were leaving or entering the land. All the people living in those regions faced constant turmoil and distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nation rose against nation, and city against city, for God brought them great distress and turmoil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, be strong and do not let your hands grow feeble, for your efforts will be rewarded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Asa heard these words and the prophecy of Oded the prophet, he was strengthened in his resolve. He removed the detestable idols from all the land of Judah and Benjamin, as well as from the cities he had captured in the hill country of Ephraim. He also restored the altar of the LORD that stood in front of the LORD's portico.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He assembled all the people of Judah and Benjamin, along with the foreigners who had settled among them from Ephraim, Manasseh, and Simeon. These individuals had come over to him in great numbers from Israel when they saw that the LORD his God was with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they assembled together in Jerusalem during the third month, in the fifteenth year of King Asa’s reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, they presented to the LORD a portion of the plunder they had taken: seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They made a solemn agreement to wholeheartedly and sincerely seek the LORD, the God of their ancestors, with all their heart and all their soul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who refuses to seek the LORD, the God of Israel, must be put to death, regardless of their status—whether young or old, male or female.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They made a solemn oath to the LORD with a loud voice, accompanied by shouts, the sounding of trumpets, and the blaring of horns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of Judah celebrated the oath they had taken, for they had pledged it with complete sincerity and sought God with their deepest longing. As a result, God revealed Himself to them, and the LORD granted them peace and security in every direction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, concerning Maachah, the mother of King Asa, he removed her from her position as queen mother because she had made a detestable idol for Asherah. Asa cut down the idol, crushed it, and burned it in the Kidron Valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the high places were not removed from Israel; yet Asa's heart remained fully devoted to the Lord throughout his life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He brought into the house of God the items that his father had consecrated, as well as those he himself had set apart—silver, gold, and sacred vessels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And there was no more war until the thirty-fifth year of Asa's reign.</span></p>






</body></html>