<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joel Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5xda6.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4c08b0aa-d3c9-8686-c7d6-162de0eb2024" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joel Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message from the LORD that was given to Joel, the son of Pethuel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to this, you elders, and pay attention, all you who live in the land. Has anything like this ever happened in your lifetime, or even in the days of your ancestors?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instruct your children about these things, and let your children teach their children, and their children the next generation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What the palmerworm has left, the locust has devoured; what the locust has left, the cankerworm has consumed; and what the cankerworm has left, the caterpillar has eaten.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wake up, you who are drunk, and weep; wail, all you who drink wine, because the new wine is taken away from your lips.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A powerful nation has invaded my land, vast and countless in number. Their teeth are like those of a lion, and they possess the fangs of a mighty lion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has devastated my vineyard and stripped the bark from my fig tree; he has left it completely bare and cast it aside. Its branches have been left white and desolate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mourn like a young woman dressed in sackcloth, grieving for the beloved husband of her youth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The grain offering and the drink offering have ceased in the house of the LORD; the priests, who serve the LORD, are in mourning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The field lies in ruin, the land grieves; for the grain is destroyed, the new wine has failed, and the olive oil withers away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Feel deep shame, you farmers; wail aloud, you vineyard keepers, for the wheat and the barley are ruined; the harvest of the field has been utterly destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The vine has dried up, and the fig tree is withering; the pomegranate, the palm, and the apple tree—indeed, all the trees of the field—have withered. This is because joy has vanished from the hearts of humanity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prepare yourselves and mourn, you priests; wail, you servants of the altar. Come, spend the night in sackcloth, you ministers of my God, for the grain offering and the drink offering have been withheld from the house of your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Set apart a time for fasting, summon a sacred gathering. Bring together the elders and all the people of the land to the house of the LORD your God, and call out to the LORD in earnest prayer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Oh, what a terrible day! For the day of the LORD is near, and it will come like a devastating judgment from the Almighty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Has not the food supply been taken away before our very eyes? Indeed, joy and celebration have vanished from the house of our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The grain has decayed beneath the clods of soil, the storehouses lie in ruins, and the barns have been torn down, for the harvest has dried up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The animals cry out in distress! The herds of cattle wander aimlessly, confused and troubled, for there is no pasture to graze upon. Even the flocks of sheep suffer and are left in desolation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, I cry out to you, for fire has consumed the open pastures of the wilderness, and flames have scorched every tree in the fields.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wild animals of the field cry out to you as well, for the streams of water have dried up, and fire has consumed the grazing lands of the wilderness.</span></p>






</body></html>