<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Malachi Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5yv92.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8af5ec4b-71a3-db4e-bec8-68c4513fc5bb" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Malachi Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message from the LORD to Israel, delivered through Malachi.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares, "I have loved you." Yet you ask, "How have you loved us?" The LORD responds, "Was not Esau Jacob's brother? Yet I chose Jacob."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I rejected Esau and turned his mountains and inheritance into a desolate wasteland, a place for the jackals of the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Though Edom says, "We have been brought low, but we will rebuild the ruined places," this is what the LORD of hosts declares: "They may rebuild, but I will tear it down. They will be called 'The Land of Wickedness' and 'The People with Whom the LORD Is Angry Forever.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will witness with your own eyes and declare, "The LORD will be exalted beyond the boundaries of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A son honors his father, and a servant respects his master. So if I am your father, where is the honor due to me? And if I am your master, where is the reverence you owe me? This is what the LORD of Hosts says to you, O priests, who show contempt for my name. Yet you ask, “How have we shown contempt for your name?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You bring defiled offerings to my altar, and then you ask, "How have we defiled you?" By saying, "The Lord's table is worthless and deserves no respect."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you bring a blind animal for sacrifice, is that not wrong? And if you bring a lame or sick animal, is that not also wrong? Try offering it to your governor—would he be pleased with you or show you favor? says the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, I urge you, plead with God to show us mercy. This calamity has come about because of your actions. Do you think He will show favor to you because of who you are? This is what the LORD of Hosts declares.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is there anyone among you who would close the temple doors without a purpose? And why do you light fires on my altar without meaning? I take no pleasure in you, declares the LORD of hosts, nor will I accept any offering from your hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the place where the sun rises to where it sets, my name will be honored among the nations. In every location, offerings of incense and pure sacrifices will be presented in my name, for my name will be revered among the nations, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you have dishonored it by saying, "The Lord's table is defiled," and by treating its offerings—even the food provided for Him—as worthless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have said, "What a burden this is!" and you have treated it with contempt, declares the LORD of hosts. You bring what has been torn by animals, the lame, and the sick as your offering. Should I accept this from your hand? says the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But a curse will fall on the deceiver who has a male animal in his flock, vows to offer it to the Lord, and then sacrifices a defective or blemished animal instead. For I am a great King, declares the LORD of hosts, and my name is revered and feared among the nations.</span></p>






</body></html>