<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 29</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s5za3x.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:70cb999c-da80-eb6d-8ec5-fa24760e6173" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 29</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah became king at the age of twenty-five, and he reigned for twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, following all the ways of his father David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the first year of his reign, during the first month, he opened the doors of the house of the LORD and restored them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He summoned the priests and the Levites and assembled them in the eastern square.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to them, "Listen to me, you Levites. Consecrate yourselves now, and consecrate the house of the LORD, the God of your ancestors. Remove all defilement from the holy place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our ancestors have sinned and done what is evil in the sight of the LORD our God. They have abandoned Him, turned their faces away from the dwelling place of the LORD, and turned their backs on Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, they have closed the doors of the portico and extinguished the lamps. They have neither burned incense nor presented burnt offerings in the sacred place to the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the anger of the LORD burned against Judah and Jerusalem, and He has handed them over to distress, devastation, and disgrace, as you can see with your own eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Behold, our ancestors have perished by the sword, and now our sons, our daughters, and our wives are held in captivity because of this.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It is now my heartfelt intention to establish a covenant with the LORD, the God of Israel, so that His burning anger may be turned away from us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My sons, do not be careless or neglectful in your duties, for the LORD has chosen you to stand in His presence, to serve Him, and to act as His ministers by offering incense.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Levites stood up: Mahath, the son of Amasai, and Joel, the son of Azariah, from the descendants of Kohath; and from the descendants of Merari, Kish, the son of Abdi, and Azariah, the son of Jehalelel; and from the Gershonites, Joah, the son of Zimmah, and Eden, the son of Joah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Elizaphan: Shimri and Jeiel. And from the descendants of Asaph: Zechariah and Mattaniah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Heman: Jehiel and Shimei. And from the descendants of Jeduthun: Shemaiah and Uzziel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They assembled their fellow priests and consecrated themselves, then came together as the king had commanded, following the instructions given by the LORD, to purify the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests entered the innermost part of the house of the LORD to purify it, and they removed all the defiled objects they discovered in the temple of the LORD, bringing them out into the courtyard of the LORD’s house. The Levites then took these items to carry them outside the city to the Kidron Valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the first day of the first month, they began the process of consecration, and by the eighth day of the month, they reached the entrance of the LORD's temple. In this way, they dedicated the house of the LORD over the course of eight days. Then, on the sixteenth day of the first month, they completed the work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they went to King Hezekiah and reported, "We have purified the entire house of the LORD, including the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, and the table for the bread of the Presence with all its utensils."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, all the sacred vessels that King Ahaz, during his reign, discarded in his unfaithfulness, we have now restored and consecrated. Behold, they are placed before the altar of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Hezekiah arose early in the morning, assembled the city’s leaders, and went up to the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They presented seven bulls, seven rams, seven lambs, and seven male goats as a sin offering for the kingdom, the sanctuary, and for Judah. He then instructed the priests, the descendants of Aaron, to offer them on the altar of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They slaughtered the bulls, and the priests collected the blood and splashed it against the altar. In the same way, when they slaughtered the rams, they splashed their blood against the altar. They also slaughtered the lambs and splashed their blood against the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They presented the male goats for the sin offering before the king and the assembly, and they placed their hands on them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests slaughtered the animals and used their blood on the altar to make reconciliation, providing atonement for all Israel. This was done because the king had ordered that the burnt offering and the sin offering be made on behalf of the entire nation of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He appointed the Levites to serve in the house of the LORD with cymbals, harps, and lyres, in accordance with the instructions given by David, Gad the king’s seer, and Nathan the prophet. This was done as the LORD had commanded through His prophets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites stood holding the musical instruments that King David had designated, while the priests stood ready with their trumpets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah gave the order to present the burnt offering on the altar. As the burnt offering commenced, the singing to the LORD began as well, accompanied by the trumpets and the musical instruments that David, the king of Israel, had established.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire assembly bowed in worship, while the singers lifted their voices in song and the trumpeters played their instruments. This continued without pause until the burnt offering was fully completed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had finished presenting the offerings, the king and all those who were with him knelt down and worshiped.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, King Hezekiah and the leaders instructed the Levites to offer praise to the LORD using the words composed by David and Asaph, the seer. They sang praises with joy, bowed their heads, and worshiped.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Hezekiah responded, saying, "Now that you have dedicated yourselves to the LORD, come forward and bring sacrifices and thank offerings to the house of the LORD." So the assembly brought sacrifices and thank offerings, and all who were willing in heart also brought burnt offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The congregation presented a total of seventy bulls, one hundred rams, and two hundred lambs as burnt offerings to the LORD. All of these were offered as a burnt sacrifice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sacred offerings consisted of six hundred oxen and three thousand sheep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, there were not enough priests to skin all the burnt offerings, so their fellow Levites stepped in to assist them until the work was completed and until the other priests had consecrated themselves. This was because the Levites were more wholeheartedly committed to purifying themselves than the priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The burnt offerings were plentiful, along with the fat from the peace offerings and the drink offerings that accompanied each burnt offering. In this way, the worship and service of the house of the LORD were properly established and carried out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah and all the people rejoiced because God had prepared their hearts, for this had been accomplished swiftly and unexpectedly.</span></p>






</body></html>