<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Luke Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s607ui.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e3be53e2-401b-f12d-c27b-541799ba5d72" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Luke Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It happened that while Jesus was praying in a particular place, after he finished, one of his disciples said to him, "Lord, teach us to pray, just as John taught his disciples."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to them, "When you pray, say: 'Our Father in heaven, may Your name be honored as holy. May Your kingdom come. May Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Provide us each day with the sustenance we need for that day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And forgive us our wrongdoings, just as we also forgive everyone who has wronged us. Do not lead us into situations where we might be tempted, but rescue us from evil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to them, "Suppose one of you has a friend, and you go to him at midnight and say, 'Friend, lend me three loaves of bread,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A friend of mine has arrived during his journey and has come to me, but I have nothing to offer him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he from inside will respond, saying, "Do not bother me; the door is already locked, and my children are here with me in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I tell you, even if he will not get up and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of the man’s persistent pleading, he will get up and give him as much as he needs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I tell you this: Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and the door will be opened for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For everyone who asks receives; and the one who seeks finds; and to the one who knocks, the door will be opened.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a child asks for bread from one of you who is a parent, would you give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, would you give him a snake instead?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Or if he asks for an egg, will he give him a scorpion?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025419"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you, who are flawed and sinful, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025420"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was driving out a demon, and the demon had caused the person to be mute. When the demon had been cast out, the mute person began to speak, and the crowd was amazed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025421"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, some of them said, "He drives out demons by the power of Beelzebul, the ruler of the demons."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Others, testing Him, asked for a sign from heaven to prove His authority.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jesus, aware of their thoughts, said to them, "Any kingdom that is divided against itself will be ruined, and a household divided against itself will collapse."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If Satan is divided against himself, how can his kingdom endure? For you claim that I drive out demons by the power of Beelzebub.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if I drive out demons by the power of Beelzebul, by whose authority do your own followers cast them out? Therefore, they will be the ones to judge you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if I am casting out demons by the power of God, then surely the kingdom of God has come upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own house, his possessions remain secure and undisturbed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when someone stronger than he attacks and overpowers him, that stronger one will take away all the weapons he relied on and distribute the plunder he had gathered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever is not aligned with me is opposed to me, and whoever does not gather with me causes division.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When an unclean spirit leaves a person, it wanders through arid places, searching for rest but finding none. Then it says, "I will return to the home I left."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrives, he finds it cleaned and put in order.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he goes and takes with him seven other spirits more evil than himself; they enter and settle there, and the final condition of that person becomes worse than it was at first.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As he was saying these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, "Blessed is the mother who gave birth to you and nursed you at her breast."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he replied, "Truly, those who hear the word of God and obey it are the ones who are blessed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the crowd pressed closely around Him, He began to say, "This is a wicked generation. They demand a sign, but no sign will be given to them except the sign of Jonah the prophet."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as Jonah served as a sign to the people of Nineveh, so too will the Son of Man be a sign to this generation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The queen of the South will stand up at the judgment alongside the people of this generation and condemn them, for she traveled from the farthest reaches of the earth to listen to the wisdom of Solomon. Yet now, someone greater than Solomon is here.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Nineveh will stand up at the judgment alongside this generation and condemn it, because they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And now, someone greater than Jonah is here.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When someone lights a lamp, they do not hide it in a concealed place or place it under a basket. Instead, they set it on a lampstand so that those who enter may see the light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The eye is the lamp of the body. So if your eye is clear and focused, your whole body will be filled with light. But if your eye is clouded or corrupted, your body will be filled with darkness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful, then, that the light within you is not actually darkness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If your entire body is filled with light, with no part of it in darkness, then your whole being will be radiant, just as a brightly shining lamp illuminates you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Jesus was speaking, a certain Pharisee invited him to eat with him. So he entered the Pharisee’s house and reclined at the table to dine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Pharisee noticed this, he was astonished that Jesus had not first washed his hands before the meal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord said to them, "You Pharisees clean the outside of the cup and the dish, but inside you are filled with greed and wickedness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You foolish ones, did not the Creator who made the outer world also make the inner being?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instead, give generously from what you possess, and you will find that everything is pure and acceptable to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But how terrible it will be for you, Pharisees! For you carefully give a tenth of your mint, rue, and every kind of herb, yet you neglect justice and the love of God. These are the things you should have practiced, without failing to do the others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for you, Pharisees! For you crave the most prominent seats in the synagogues and delight in being greeted with respect in the public squares.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you are like unmarked graves that people walk over without even realizing it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then one of the legal experts responded, saying to Him, "Teacher, by saying this, You are insulting us as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said, "How terrible it will be for you, teachers of the law! For you load people down with heavy burdens that are difficult to carry, yet you yourselves do not lift a finger to help them bear those burdens."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible for you! You build monuments to honor the prophets, yet it was your ancestors who killed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You yourselves testify that you approve of the actions of your ancestors, for they were the ones who killed the prophets, and now you build monuments to honor them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this reason, the wisdom of God declared, "I will send them prophets and messengers, but some of them they will kill and persecute."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The blood of all the prophets, shed since the beginning of the world, will be demanded from this generation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who was killed between the altar and the sanctuary—truly I tell you, this generation will be held accountable for it all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for you, legal experts! For you have taken away the key to understanding. You yourselves have not entered into true knowledge, and you have hindered those who were trying to enter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Jesus spoke these words to them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press him aggressively, seeking to provoke him into addressing numerous issues.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were lying in wait for him, carefully watching for an opportunity to trap him with his own words, hoping to find grounds to bring charges against him.</span></p>






</body></html>