<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s62e8e.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e41d4586-b85d-9fc7-5964-8fc5767b6f97" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is also the regulation for the guilt offering: it is most sacred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same location where the burnt offering is slaughtered, the trespass offering shall also be slaughtered. Its blood shall then be sprinkled all around the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He is to present all the fat from it: the fat tail, and the fat that covers the internal organs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the two kidneys, along with the fat that is on them, which is near the loins, and the fatty lobe that is attached to the liver—he shall remove these along with the kidneys.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall burn them on the altar as a fire offering to the LORD; it is a guilt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every male among the priests may partake of it; it is to be eaten in a sacred place, for it is most holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sin offering and the trespass offering are treated the same; there is one regulation for both. The priest who performs the atonement with it shall keep it for himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest who presents someone's burnt offering shall keep the skin of the animal he has offered as his own portion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every grain offering that is baked in the oven, or prepared in a frying pan or on a griddle, shall belong to the priest who presents it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every grain offering, whether mixed with oil or prepared dry, shall be shared equally among all the sons of Aaron, with each receiving an equal portion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning the peace offering that one is to present to the LORD:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone presents it as a thanksgiving offering, they must offer, along with the thanksgiving sacrifice, unleavened cakes mixed with oil, unleavened wafers spread with oil, and cakes made of fine flour mixed with oil and well-kneaded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In addition to the unleavened cakes, he must present leavened bread as part of his offering, along with the thanksgiving sacrifice of his peace offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the entire grain offering, he shall present one portion as a special contribution to the LORD, and it shall belong to the priest who sprinkles the blood of the peace offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The meat from the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving must be eaten on the same day it is presented; none of it is to remain until the next morning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the offering he presents is part of a vow or a voluntary gift, it must be eaten on the same day he offers the sacrifice. Any portion that remains may also be eaten the following day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, any remaining meat from the sacrifice must be completely burned by fire on the third day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any of the meat from the sacrifice of his peace offerings is eaten on the third day, it will not be accepted, nor will it be credited to the one who offered it. It will be considered detestable, and the person who eats it will bear the guilt of their wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any meat comes into contact with something unclean, it must not be eaten; instead, it must be burned in the fire. However, those who are ritually clean may eat the meat that remains uncontaminated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if anyone eats the meat of the peace offering that belongs to the LORD while they are in a state of ritual impurity, that person must be cut off from their community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, if anyone touches anything unclean—whether it is the uncleanness of a person, an unclean animal, or any detestable unclean thing—and then eats the meat of the peace offering that belongs to the LORD, that person must be cut off from their community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell the Israelites: You must not eat any fat from cattle, sheep, or goats.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You may use the fat of an animal that dies naturally or is killed by wild animals for other purposes, but you must never eat it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone eats the fat of an animal that is offered as a burnt sacrifice to the LORD, that person shall be cut off from their community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, you must not consume any kind of blood, whether from birds or animals, in any of your homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any person consumes any kind of blood, that individual shall be completely separated from their community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell the Israelites this: When someone presents a peace offering to the LORD, they must bring their offering to the LORD from the sacrifice of their peace offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall present with his own hands the offerings made to the LORD by fire, including the fat along with the breast. He is to bring the breast so that it may be lifted up as a wave offering before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall burn the fat on the altar, but the breast shall belong to Aaron and his sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall give the right thigh to the priest as a contribution from the sacrifices of your peace offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Among Aaron's descendants, the priest who presents the blood and the fat of the peace offerings shall receive the right thigh as his portion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have taken the breast that was waved and the shoulder that was lifted up from the offerings of the Israelites, which they presented as their peace offerings. These portions I have given to Aaron the priest and to his sons as their permanent share, established by a lasting ordinance among the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the portion set aside for the anointing of Aaron and his sons, taken from the offerings made to the Lord by fire, on the day they were presented to serve as priests before the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD commanded that this be given to them by the Israelites on the day He anointed them. It is to be a permanent statute for all their generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning the burnt offering, the grain offering, the sin offering, the guilt offering, the ordination offerings, and the fellowship offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD commanded Moses on Mount Sinai, on the day He instructed the Israelites to present their offerings to the LORD in the wilderness of Sinai.</span></p>






</body></html>