<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 29</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s62fti.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:defc4191-60e1-07a6-f466-0029a25cfbb8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 29</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the tenth year, on the tenth day of the tenth month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, direct your attention toward Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and proclaim a message of judgment against him and against the entire land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak and declare, "This is what the Lord GOD says: I am against you, Pharaoh, king of Egypt, the great monster who lies in the midst of your rivers, who has said, 'The Nile is mine; I made it for myself.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I will place hooks in your jaws, and I will make the fish of your rivers cling to your scales. I will pull you up from the midst of your rivers, and all the fish of your rivers will remain attached to your scales.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will abandon you in the wilderness, you and all the fish from your rivers. You will fall in the open fields, left uncollected and ungathered. I have given you as food for the wild animals of the earth and the birds of the sky.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people of Egypt will come to understand that I am the LORD, for they have acted like a flimsy reed staff to the house of Israel. When Israel leaned on them for support, they splintered and failed, causing harm instead of providing stability. Through this, they will recognize my power and sovereignty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they grasped you by the hand, you shattered and tore their shoulders apart. And when they leaned on you for support, you broke them and caused their strength to fail completely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: "Listen carefully, I am going to bring a sword against you, and I will destroy both people and animals within your land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land of Egypt will become desolate and ruined, and they will know that I am the LORD. For he declared, "The river is mine, and I created it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I am against you and against your rivers, and I will turn the land of Egypt into a complete wasteland, utterly desolate, stretching from the fortress of Syene all the way to the border of Ethiopia.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No human foot will tread upon it, nor will the foot of any animal pass through it. It will remain uninhabited for forty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will make the land of Egypt a desolation, surrounded by other desolate lands, and its cities will lie in ruins among other ruined cities for forty years. I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them across various countries.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: After forty years have passed, I will bring the Egyptians back from the nations where they have been scattered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will restore the fortunes of Egypt and bring them back to the land of Pathros, the land of their origin, where they will live. However, they will become a lowly and insignificant kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It will become the lowliest of kingdoms and will no longer exalt itself above other nations. For I will reduce its power so that it will no longer dominate over the nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The text will no longer serve as a source of confidence for the house of Israel, reminding them of their guilt when they turn to it. Instead, they will come to understand that I am the Sovereign LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twenty-seventh year, on the first day of the first month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, made his army labor intensely in the siege against Tyre. Every soldier's head became bald from wearing helmets, and every shoulder was rubbed raw from carrying heavy burdens. Yet, neither he nor his army received any reward or payment for all the effort they expended against Tyre."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: Listen carefully, I am about to hand over the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon. He will seize its wealth, carry off its plunder, and take its spoils. This will serve as payment for his army.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have given him the land of Egypt as payment for his labor, for the work he did against it, because they acted on my behalf, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, I will cause the strength of the house of Israel to flourish, and I will enable you to speak boldly among them. Then they will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>