<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 36</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s65ium.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a3a3e8b5-4d59-0dd5-7fb6-c861151aa5e9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 36</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz, the son of Josiah, and appointed him as king in Jerusalem to succeed his father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he became king, and he ruled for three months in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Egypt deposed him in Jerusalem and imposed a fine on the land of one hundred talents of silver and one talent of gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Egypt appointed Eliakim, Jehoahaz's brother, as king over Judah and Jerusalem, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. Then Necho took Jehoahaz, his brother, and brought him to Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he ruled for eleven years in Jerusalem. He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD his God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, advanced against him, captured him, and bound him with chains to take him away to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nebuchadnezzar also took the sacred vessels from the house of the LORD and brought them to Babylon, placing them in the temple of his god in Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Jehoiakim’s reign, including the detestable actions he committed and the sins found in him, are indeed recorded in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. His son Jehoiachin succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoiachin was eight years old when he became king, and he ruled in Jerusalem for three months and ten days. He did what was evil in the eyes of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the end of the year, King Nebuchadnezzar sent for him and brought him to Babylon, along with the precious articles from the house of the LORD. He then appointed Zedekiah, his brother, as king over Judah and Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he ruled for eleven years in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed what was evil in the sight of the LORD his God and did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet, who spoke the words given by the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him swear an oath in God's name. But he became stubborn and hardened his heart, refusing to turn back to the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, all the leading priests and the people committed great acts of unfaithfulness, following all the detestable practices of the nations. They defiled the house of the LORD, which He had consecrated in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD, the God of their ancestors, sent messengers to them repeatedly, rising early and sending them, because He had compassion on His people and on His dwelling place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they ridiculed God’s messengers, scorned His words, and mistreated His prophets, until the anger of the LORD grew so intense against His people that there was no way to avert it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, God brought against them the king of the Babylonians, who killed their young men with the sword in the sanctuary itself, showing no mercy to anyone—whether young men or young women, the elderly, or even those weakened by age. He handed them all over to the king’s power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took all the articles from the house of God, both large and small, along with the treasures of the Lord’s temple and the treasures of the king and his officials. Everything was carried off to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They set fire to the house of God, tore down the wall of Jerusalem, burned all its palaces with fire, and destroyed all its precious vessels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took those who had survived the sword and exiled them to Babylon, where they became servants to him and his descendants until the rise of the Persian kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To fulfill the word of the LORD spoken through the prophet Jeremiah, the land observed its sabbaths. For as long as it lay desolate, it rested, fulfilling seventy years of sabbath rest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, in order to fulfill the word of the LORD that had been spoken through the prophet Jeremiah, the LORD moved the heart of Cyrus, king of Persia, to issue a decree throughout his entire kingdom and to put it in writing. The proclamation declared:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the declaration of Cyrus, king of Persia: The LORD, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and He has commanded me to build a house for Him in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. If any of His people are among you, may the LORD their God be with them, and let them go up to Jerusalem.</span></p>






</body></html>