<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6askz.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:fb7c9abd-cb6d-aa61-e42f-09bc3977fb26" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They came across a Jewish man named Aquila, originally from Pontus, who had recently arrived from Italy with his wife Priscilla. This was because Emperor Claudius had issued an order requiring all Jews to leave Rome. Paul went to see them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because he practiced the same trade, he stayed with them and worked alongside them, for they were tentmakers by profession.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And every Sabbath, he engaged in discussion in the synagogue, seeking to convince both Jews and Greeks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedonia, Paul felt deeply compelled by the Spirit and earnestly declared to the Jews that Jesus is the Messiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they resisted and spoke against him, he shook out his garments and said to them, "Your guilt is on your own heads; I am innocent. From now on, I will go to the Gentiles."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he left that place and went to the home of a man named Justus, a devout worshiper of God. His house was located right next to the synagogue.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Crispus, the leader of the synagogue, came to believe in the Lord along with his entire household. When many of the Corinthians heard this, they also believed and were baptized.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Lord spoke to Paul during the night through a vision, saying, "Do not be afraid, but continue to speak and do not remain silent."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you, because there are many in this city who belong to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He stayed there for a year and six months, instructing them in the word of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Gallio was the governor of Achaia, the Jews united in an uprising against Paul and brought him before the tribunal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were saying, "This man is leading people to worship God in a way that violates the law."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Paul was about to speak, Gallio addressed the Jews, saying, "If this were a case involving some wrongdoing or a serious crime, O Jews, it would be reasonable for me to listen to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if this is a matter concerning disputes over words, names, and your own law, you must handle it yourselves, for I refuse to act as a judge in such cases.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he drove them away from the place of judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the Greeks seized Sosthenes, the leader of the synagogue, and beat him in front of the judgment seat. But Gallio paid no attention to any of these matters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, Paul stayed there for a considerable time and then said farewell to the believers. He set sail for Syria, accompanied by Priscilla and Aquila. Before departing, he had his hair cut off in Cenchrea because he had taken a vow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He arrived in Ephesus and left his companions there, but he himself went into the synagogue and engaged in discussion with the Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they urged him to stay with them for a longer period, he did not agree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he said goodbye to them, saying, "I must absolutely attend this upcoming festival in Jerusalem. However, I will come back to you, God willing." Then he set sail from Ephesus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrived at Caesarea, he went up to greet the church and then traveled down to Antioch.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After spending some time there, he left and traveled systematically through the entire region of Galatia and Phrygia, encouraging and strengthening all the disciples along the way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A Jewish man named Apollos, who was from Alexandria, arrived in Ephesus. He was a skilled speaker and deeply knowledgeable about the Scriptures.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This man was well-taught in the ways of the Lord, and with great zeal and passion in his spirit, he spoke and taught accurately about the things of the Lord. However, he was familiar only with the baptism of John.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He began to speak boldly in the synagogue. When Aquila and Priscilla heard him, they took him aside and explained the way of God to him more accurately.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he decided to travel to Achaia, the believers encouraged the disciples there to welcome him. Upon his arrival, he greatly assisted those who had come to faith through God's grace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he powerfully refuted the Jews in public, demonstrating through the Scriptures that Jesus was the Messiah.</span></p>






</body></html>