<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6avhp.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:15ec46bb-d7ae-5fe1-b77f-9a8528fc3bd8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, the king of the Ammonites died, and his son Hanun succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David said, "I will show kindness to Hanun, the son of Nahash, just as his father showed kindness to me." So David sent his servants to comfort Hanun concerning the death of his father. When David’s servants arrived in the land of the Ammonites, they came to Hanun.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of the Ammonites said to Hanun their ruler, "Do you really think David is honoring your father by sending these men to comfort you? Isn’t it more likely that David has sent his servants to you to explore the city, spy on it, and prepare to overthrow it?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, Hanun seized David’s servants, shaved off half of their beards, cut their garments in half at the waist, exposing their buttocks, and then sent them away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David was informed about what had happened, he sent messengers to meet them, for the men were deeply humiliated. The king said, "Stay in Jericho until your beards have grown back, and then return."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Ammonites realized that they had become repugnant to David, they sent messengers to hire the Arameans of Beth-rehob and the Arameans of Zoba, securing twenty thousand foot soldiers. They also enlisted a thousand men from King Maacah and twelve thousand men from Ish-tob.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David received word of this, he dispatched Joab and the entire army of his most valiant warriors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Ammonite forces advanced and positioned themselves for battle at the entrance of the city gate. Meanwhile, the Arameans from Zobah, Rehob, Ish-tob, and Maacah remained separately in the open field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Joab realized that the battlefront was pressing against him both in front and behind, he selected some of the finest warriors from all of Israel and positioned them in battle formation to face the Arameans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining people he placed under the command of his brother Abishai, so that he might organize them for battle against the Ammonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "If the Syrians prove too strong for me, then you will come to my aid. But if the Ammonites prove too strong for you, then I will come and help you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be strong and courageous, and let us act with bravery for the sake of our people and for the cities of our God. May the LORD do what He deems best.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008254"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab advanced, along with the people who were with him, to engage in battle against the Arameans, and the Arameans fled before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008255"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Ammonites saw that the Arameans had fled, they also retreated before Abishai and withdrew into their city. Then Joab turned back from fighting the Ammonites and returned to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008256"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Arameans realized they were being defeated by Israel, they rallied their forces together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008257"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hadarezer sent messengers and summoned the Arameans from beyond the Euphrates River. They came to Helam, led by Shobach, the commander of Hadarezer’s army.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008258"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David received this report, he assembled all the forces of Israel, crossed the Jordan River, and arrived at Helam. The Arameans formed their battle lines against David and engaged him in combat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008259"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Syrian forces fled before Israel, and David killed seven hundred of their chariot fighters and forty thousand horsemen. He also struck down Shobach, the commander of their army, who died on the battlefield.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008260"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all the kings who were subject to Hadadezer saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they made peace with Israel and submitted to their authority. As a result, the Arameans were afraid to offer further assistance to the Ammonites.</span></p>






</body></html>