<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6ev3v.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:365d0f88-accb-b27a-c234-37124f5ff0f8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So all the work that Solomon had done for the house of the Lord was completed. Solomon brought in all the items that his father David had dedicated—the silver, the gold, and all the utensils—and placed them among the treasuries of the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Solomon gathered the elders of Israel, along with all the leaders of the tribes and the heads of the families of the people of Israel, to Jerusalem. They came to bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD from the city of David, which is Zion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, all the men of Israel gathered together before the king during the festival that took place in the seventh month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the leaders of Israel gathered together, and the Levites lifted up the ark.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They carried up the ark, the tent of meeting, and all the sacred vessels that were inside the tent. These were brought up by the priests and the Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon, along with the entire assembly of Israel gathered before the ark, offered sacrifices of sheep and oxen in such great numbers that they were beyond counting or keeping track of.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests carried the ark of the covenant of the LORD into its designated place, into the inner sanctuary of the temple, the Most Holy Place, beneath the outstretched wings of the cherubim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cherubim spread their wings over the place of the ark, and they covered the ark and its carrying poles from above.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011278"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They pulled out the poles of the ark so that the ends of the poles were visible from the front of the ark, within the inner sanctuary, but they could not be seen from outside. The ark remains there to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011279"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ark contained nothing except the two stone tablets that Moses placed inside at Horeb, when the LORD established a covenant with the Israelites after they had come out of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011280"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the priests came out of the holy place—for all the priests who were present had consecrated themselves, and they were not serving in their assigned groups at that time—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites who were singers, all from the families of Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun, along with their sons and relatives, were dressed in fine white linen. They held cymbals, harps, and lyres and stood at the east side of the altar. With them were one hundred and twenty priests blowing trumpets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011282"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what happened: As the trumpeters and singers joined together in unity, producing a single harmonious sound to praise and give thanks to the LORD, and as they raised their voices with trumpets, cymbals, and musical instruments to honor the LORD, declaring, "For He is good; His faithful love endures forever," the house of the LORD was suddenly filled with a cloud.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests were unable to remain standing to perform their duties because of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD had completely filled the house of God.</span></p>






</body></html>