<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6ffo9.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5c0e51f1-6fe8-fa55-0e72-638b422d7598" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then He said to me, "Son of man, eat what you find here; eat this scroll, and then go and speak to the house of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I opened my mouth, and he made me eat the scroll.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to me, "Son of man, consume this scroll; let it fill your stomach and nourish your innermost being with what I am giving you." So I ate it, and in my mouth, it was as sweet as honey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to me, "Mortal, go to the house of Israel and deliver My words to them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are not being sent to a people whose speech is unfamiliar or whose language is difficult, but to the house of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Not to people of foreign speech and difficult language, whose words you cannot understand. If I had sent you to them, they would certainly have listened to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the people of Israel will not listen to you, because they refuse to listen to me. For the entire house of Israel is stubborn and hardened in heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I have made your face as unyielding as theirs, and your forehead as resolute as theirs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have made your forehead as hard as the hardest stone, harder than flint. Do not fear them, nor be terrified by their expressions, even though they are a rebellious people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, he said to me, "Son of man, take all the words I will speak to you deeply into your heart, and listen carefully with your ears."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and present yourself to those in exile, to your own people, and speak to them. Tell them, "This is what the Lord GOD says," whether they choose to listen or refuse to hear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me a loud, rushing sound, saying, "May the glory of the LORD be praised from His dwelling place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also heard the sound of the wings of the living beings as they brushed against one another, the sound of the wheels beside them, and the noise of a mighty rushing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Spirit lifted me up and carried me away, and I went in deep distress, with my spirit burning within me. Yet the hand of the LORD was powerfully upon me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I went to the exiles who were living at Tel-abib, near the Kebar River. I sat among them where they were staying, and I remained there, overwhelmed, for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After seven days had passed, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, I have appointed you as a watchman over the house of Israel. Therefore, listen carefully to the words I speak to you and deliver my warning to them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I say to the wicked, "You will certainly die," and you fail to warn them or speak to turn them from their wicked ways so that they may live, that wicked person will die in their sin, but I will hold you accountable for their blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if you warn the wicked person, and they do not turn away from their wickedness or their evil ways, they will die in their sin; but you will have saved your own life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Again, if a righteous person turns away from their righteousness and commits sin, and I place an obstacle in their path, they will die. Because you did not warn them, they will die in their sin, and the righteous deeds they had done will not be remembered. But I will hold you accountable for their death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if you warn a righteous person not to sin, and they do not sin, they will certainly live because they heeded the warning. In this way, you will have fulfilled your responsibility and saved yourself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The power of the LORD came upon me, and He said to me, "Get up, go out to the open plain, and there I will speak with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I stood up and went out to the open plain. There, I saw the glory of the LORD standing before me, just like the glory I had seen by the Kebar River. Overwhelmed, I fell facedown to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Spirit came into me, stood me on my feet, and spoke to me, saying, "Go, confine yourself within your house."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you, O mortal, listen carefully: they will place restraints upon you and bind you with them, and you will not be able to go out among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause your tongue to stick to the roof of your mouth, so that you will be unable to speak and will no longer serve as their rebuker, for they are a rebellious people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I speak to you, I will enable you to speak, and you shall say to them, "This is what the Lord GOD says: Let those who listen, listen; and let those who refuse, refuse—for they are a rebellious people."</span></p>






</body></html>