<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6hf73.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2880fcff-42c3-9e77-e93d-5faa1352395e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This month will mark the beginning of your calendar; it will be the first month of the year for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the entire community of Israel, saying: On the tenth day of this month, each man is to select a lamb for his household, one lamb per family, according to the households of their fathers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the household is too small to consume the entire lamb, then the person and their nearest neighbor should share it, based on the number of people. Each person should calculate their portion according to how much they will eat when determining the amount needed for the lamb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your lamb must be perfect, without any defect, a male in its first year. You are to select it from either the sheep or the goats.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to keep it until the fourteenth day of that same month, and then the entire community of Israel is to slaughter it at twilight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall take some of the blood and apply it to the two doorposts and the lintel of the houses where they will eat the meal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are to eat the meat that same night, roasted over the fire, along with unleavened bread and bitter herbs. This is how it must be eaten.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not eat it raw or boiled in water, but roast it over the fire—its head, legs, and inner parts together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not leave any of it remaining until morning; whatever is left over until morning, you must burn in the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here is how you are to eat it: with your cloak tucked into your belt, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand. You must eat it quickly, for it is the Passover of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will move through the land of Egypt tonight, and I will strike down every firstborn in the land of Egypt, both human and animal. I will also bring judgment upon all the gods of Egypt. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The blood will serve as a sign for you on the houses where you are staying. When I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague will come upon you to bring destruction when I strike the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This day shall serve as a lasting memorial for you, and you shall celebrate it as a festival to the LORD throughout all your generations. You are to observe it as a permanent ordinance, a feast to be kept forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For seven days you must eat unleavened bread. On the very first day, you are to remove all leaven from your homes. Anyone who eats leavened bread from the first day through the seventh day will be cut off from the community of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the first day, there shall be a sacred assembly, and on the seventh day, there shall also be a sacred assembly for you. No work of any kind is to be done on these days, except for what is necessary to prepare food for everyone to eat—only that may be done by you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread, for on this very day I brought your multitudes out of the land of Egypt. Therefore, you are to observe this day throughout your generations as a lasting ordinance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, you shall eat unleavened bread, continuing until the twenty-first day of the month at evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For seven days, no leaven shall be found in your homes. Whoever eats anything leavened during this time, that person shall be excluded from the community of Israel, whether they are a foreigner or a native of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not eat anything containing yeast; in all your dwellings, you are to eat unleavened bread.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Moses summoned all the elders of Israel and said to them, "Select and take a lamb for each of your households, and slaughter it for the Passover sacrifice."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall take a bundle of hyssop, dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and apply some of the blood to the top of the doorframe and the two side posts. None of you shall go out through the door of your house until morning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD will move through the land to strike down the Egyptians; and when He sees the blood on the top of the doorway and on the two doorposts, the LORD will pass over that entrance and will not allow the destroyer to enter your homes to strike you down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must keep this practice as a lasting statute for you and your descendants forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when you enter the land that the LORD will give you, just as He has promised, you are to observe this ceremony.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when the time comes that your children ask you, "What is the meaning of this ceremony?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to say, "This is the Passover sacrifice to the LORD, who passed over the houses of the Israelites in Egypt when he struck down the Egyptians but spared our homes." Then the people bowed their heads and worshiped.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites departed and carried out everything exactly as the LORD had instructed Moses and Aaron; they obeyed fully.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At midnight, the LORD struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh, who sat on his throne, to the firstborn of the prisoner confined in the dungeon, and even all the firstborn of the livestock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh got up in the night, along with all his officials and all the Egyptians, and there was loud wailing throughout Egypt, for there was no household where someone had not died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, during the night, he summoned Moses and Aaron and said, "Get up and leave my people, both you and the Israelites. Go and worship the LORD, as you have requested."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take your flocks and herds, as you have requested, and go. And may you also bless me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Egyptians pressed the people urgently to leave the land quickly, for they said, "We will all die if they stay any longer."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people took their dough before it had time to rise, with their kneading bowls wrapped in their cloaks and carried on their shoulders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites followed Moses' instructions and asked the Egyptians for articles of silver and gold, as well as clothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD caused the Egyptians to regard the Israelites favorably, so that the Egyptians willingly gave them whatever they requested. In this way, the Israelites took possession of the Egyptians' wealth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites set out from Rameses and traveled to Succoth. There were approximately six hundred thousand men on foot, not including the children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A diverse group of people also went up with them, along with large numbers of livestock—flocks and herds, a great abundance of animals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They baked flatbread from the dough they had brought out of Egypt, since it was not leavened. This was because they had been driven out of Egypt in haste and could not delay, nor had they prepared any provisions for themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The time that the Israelites lived as foreigners in Egypt was four hundred and thirty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the conclusion of four hundred and thirty years, on that very same day, all the armies of the LORD departed from the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is a night to be solemnly commemorated in honor of the LORD, for He brought them out of the land of Egypt. This is the night dedicated to the LORD, to be observed by all the people of Israel throughout their generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses and Aaron, "This is the regulation concerning the Passover: No foreigner is to eat of it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, any servant that you have purchased with money may eat of it once you have circumcised him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A foreigner or a hired worker is not permitted to eat of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The meal must be eaten within one house; you are not to take any of the meat outside the house, nor are you to break any of its bones. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire community of Israel must observe it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When a foreigner resides among you and wishes to celebrate the Passover in honor of the LORD, all the males in his household must first be circumcised. Only then may he participate and observe the Passover. He shall be treated as if he were a native of the land, for no one who is uncircumcised is permitted to partake of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The same law shall apply to the native-born and to the foreigner residing among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the Israelites did exactly as the LORD had instructed Moses and Aaron; they carried out everything just as they were commanded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that very same day, the LORD brought the Israelites out of the land of Egypt, organized as their military divisions.</span></p>






</body></html>