<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 24</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6jta7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:184e9030-c0a7-8586-60b2-e11a87c82ff7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 24</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the reign of Jehoiakim, Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, invaded the land, and Jehoiakim submitted to him as his vassal for three years. However, after that time, Jehoiakim turned against Nebuchadnezzar and rebelled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD sent raiding parties of the Chaldeans, Syrians, Moabites, and Ammonites against him. He dispatched them to attack Judah and bring about its destruction, in fulfillment of the word of the LORD that He had spoken through His servants, the prophets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, this disaster came upon Judah by the command of the LORD, to banish them from His presence because of the sins of Manasseh and all the evil he committed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And also for the innocent blood that he shed, for he filled Jerusalem with the blood of the guiltless, which the LORD refused to forgive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Jehoiakim’s reign and all his accomplishments, are they not recorded in the historical records of the kings of Judah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jehoiakim died and was buried with his ancestors, and his son Jehoiachin became king in his place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Egypt never ventured out of his land again, for the king of Babylon had seized control of all the territory that belonged to the king of Egypt, from the river of Egypt to the Euphrates River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he became king, and he ruled in Jerusalem for three months. His mother’s name was Nehushta, the daughter of Elnathan from Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed actions that were wicked in the eyes of the LORD, following the same path of wrongdoing as his father had done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the forces of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, advanced against Jerusalem and laid siege to the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, advanced against the city, and his forces laid siege to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Jehoiachin, the king of Judah, surrendered to the king of Babylon—he, along with his mother, his servants, his officials, and his officers. The king of Babylon captured him in the eighth year of his reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He removed from there all the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king’s palace. He also cut into pieces all the gold vessels that Solomon, king of Israel, had made for the temple of the LORD, just as the LORD had foretold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took into exile all of Jerusalem, along with all the officials and all the mighty warriors—ten thousand captives in total—as well as all the skilled craftsmen and metalworkers. No one was left behind except the poorest and most vulnerable among the people of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took Jehoiachin captive to Babylon, along with the king’s mother, his wives, his officials, and the leading men of the land. These he led into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all the mighty warriors, numbering seven thousand, along with a thousand skilled craftsmen and metalworkers—all who were strong and fit for battle—were taken captive by the king of Babylon and brought to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Babylon appointed Mattaniah, the uncle of the former king, to rule in his place and changed his name to Zedekiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he ruled for eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah from Libnah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed what was evil in the sight of the LORD, following all the actions of Jehoiakim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the LORD's fierce anger, this came about in Jerusalem and Judah, until He finally banished them from His presence. It was during this time that Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.</span></p>






</body></html>