<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Genesis Chapter 48</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6n961.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2b373665-84a9-d150-d3a4-f0032de81b49" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Genesis Chapter 48</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, someone informed Joseph, saying, "Your father is ill." So Joseph took his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, and went to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Someone came and informed Jacob, saying, "Look, your son Joseph is coming to see you." Then Israel gathered his strength and sat up on the bed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob said to Joseph, "God Almighty appeared to me at Luz in the land of Canaan and blessed me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to me, "Listen, I will cause you to prosper and increase in number, and I will make you into a great multitude of people. Moreover, I will give this land to your descendants after you as their permanent possession."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, your two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you there, shall be considered as my own. They will belong to me just as Reuben and Simeon do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your children, whom you father after them, will belong to you and will be named alongside their brothers in their inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for me, when I was returning from Paddan, Rachel died beside me in the land of Canaan while we were still on the journey, just a short distance from Ephrath. I buried her there on the way to Ephrath, which is Bethlehem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Israel looked at Joseph’s sons and asked, “Who are these?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph said to his father, "These are my sons, whom God has given me here." Jacob replied, "Bring them to me, please, so that I may bless them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Israel’s eyes had grown weak with age, so that he could no longer see clearly. Joseph brought his sons close to him, and Israel kissed them and embraced them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Israel said to Joseph, "I never expected to see your face again, but now God has even allowed me to see your children."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph brought them out from between his legs, and he bowed down with his face to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph took both of them, placing Ephraim on his right side, toward Israel’s left, and Manasseh on his left side, toward Israel’s right, and brought them close to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Israel extended his right hand and placed it on Ephraim’s head, though he was the younger, and his left hand on Manasseh’s head, intentionally crossing his hands, for Manasseh was the firstborn.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he blessed Joseph, saying, "May God, before whom my ancestors Abraham and Isaac walked faithfully, the God who has shepherded me and provided for me all my life up to this day—"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel who has delivered me from all harm, bless these young men. May my name be spoken over them, along with the names of my fathers Abraham and Isaac. May they increase greatly in number and flourish abundantly throughout the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Joseph noticed that his father had placed his right hand on Ephraim’s head, it troubled him. So he took hold of his father’s hand, intending to move it from Ephraim’s head to Manasseh’s head instead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph said to his father, "No, my father, this one is the firstborn; place your right hand on his head."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His father refused and said, "I know, my son, I know. He too will become a people, and he too will be great. But in truth, his younger brother will be greater than he, and his descendants will become a multitude of nations."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, he blessed them, saying, "Through you, Israel will pronounce blessings, saying, 'May God make you like Ephraim and Manasseh.'" And he placed Ephraim before Manasseh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Israel said to Joseph, "Listen, I am about to die, but God will be with you and will bring you back to the land of your ancestors."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, I have granted you a special portion beyond what your brothers have received—a portion I secured from the Amorites with my own sword and bow.</span></p>






</body></html>