<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Zechariah Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6ojus.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6bf0c787-a35e-b408-b20f-2c4754158eb9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Zechariah Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ask the LORD for rain during the season of the latter rains; then the LORD will create storm clouds and send down showers of rain, providing water for every blade of grass in the field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The idols speak empty words, and the diviners see false visions; they tell deceitful dreams and offer worthless comfort. Therefore, the people wander like sheep, distressed and scattered, because there is no shepherd to guide them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My anger burned against the shepherds, and I held the leaders accountable, for the LORD of Hosts has taken care of His flock, the house of Judah, and has made them like His majestic warhorse in battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From him comes the cornerstone, from him the secure peg, from him the warrior's bow, and from him every ruler united.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will be like mighty warriors, crushing their enemies into the mud of the streets in battle. They will fight fiercely because the LORD is with them, and those who ride on horses will be thrown into confusion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will deliver the house of Joseph. I will restore them and settle them once more, for I have compassion on them. They will be as though I had never rejected them, for I am the LORD their God, and I will answer them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Ephraim will become like a mighty warrior, and their hearts will overflow with joy as if from wine. Their children will witness this and be filled with gladness; their hearts will rejoice in the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will summon them and bring them together, for I have redeemed them; and they will multiply just as they did before.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will scatter them among the nations, and even in distant lands they will remember me. They will survive along with their children, and they will return to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring them back from the land of Egypt and gather them from Assyria. I will lead them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon, and there will not be enough space to contain them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will advance through the sea, enduring hardship, and will strike the waves of the sea, causing all the depths of the river to dry up. The arrogance of Assyria will be humbled, and the dominion of Egypt will come to an end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will empower them through the LORD, and they will live confidently and securely in His authority, declares the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>