<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 39</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6ox99.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3b2e9071-7f97-464f-5449-b1ad72df998e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 39</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the ninth year of Zedekiah’s reign as king of Judah, during the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, advanced with his entire army against Jerusalem. They surrounded the city and laid siege to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eleventh year of Zedekiah’s reign, on the ninth day of the fourth month, the city walls were breached.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the officials of the king of Babylon entered and took their seats in the Middle Gate, including Nergal-sharezer, Samgar-nebo, Sarsechim, the chief officer, Nergal-sharezer, the high official, and all the other officials of the king of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Zedekiah, the king of Judah, saw them—along with all the soldiers—they fled and left the city by night. They went out through the gate between the two walls near the king’s garden and took the path toward the plains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Babylonian army pursued them and caught up with Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho. After capturing him, they brought him to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, at Riblah in the land of Hamath. There, Nebuchadnezzar pronounced judgment on him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king of Babylon executed Zedekiah’s sons at Riblah, forcing Zedekiah to witness their deaths. Moreover, the king of Babylon put to death all the prominent leaders of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, he blinded Zedekiah and bound him with chains to take him to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Chaldeans set fire to the king’s palace and the homes of the people, and they demolished the walls of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, took captive to Babylon the remaining people who were left in the city, along with those who had deserted and surrendered to him, as well as the rest of the population who remained.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Nebuzaradan, the commander of the imperial guard, allowed some of the poorest people, who had nothing, to remain in the land of Judah. At that time, he also granted them vineyards and fields to cultivate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, gave specific instructions concerning Jeremiah to Nebuzaradan, the captain of the royal guard, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take him and ensure his safety; do not harm him. Instead, treat him exactly as he instructs you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, sent for Nebushasban, the chief officer, Nergal-sharezer, the high official, and all the other princes of the king of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sent messengers and brought Jeremiah out of the prison courtyard, entrusting him to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, so that he might take him to his home. Thus, Jeremiah remained among the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah while he was confined in the courtyard of the prison, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and speak to Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, saying, "This is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: I am about to bring my words against this city for harm, not for good, and they will be fulfilled on that day in your presence."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But on that day, declares the LORD, I will rescue you, and you will not be handed over to the people you fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will certainly rescue you, and you will not die by the sword. Instead, your life will be spared as a reward, because you have placed your trust in me, declares the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>