<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6p4rf.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4db68ebf-1175-d884-2c2d-39c4bb2123a4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the second year of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel, Amaziah, the son of Joash, became king of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he ruled for twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jehoaddan, and she was from Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, though not with the same wholehearted devotion as his ancestor David. Instead, he followed the example of his father Joash in all that he did.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the high places were not removed; the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense at these elevated sites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As soon as his rule was firmly established, he executed the servants who had killed his father, the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, he did not execute the children of the murderers, in accordance with what is written in the Book of the Law of Moses, where the LORD commanded, saying, "Fathers must not be put to death for the sins of their children, nor children for the sins of their fathers. Each person is to be put to death only for their own sin."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He defeated ten thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt, captured the city of Sela by force, and renamed it Joktheel, a name it retains to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz and grandson of Jehu, king of Israel, with this message: "Come, let us meet face to face."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Jehoash of Israel sent a message to King Amaziah of Judah, saying, "The thistle in Lebanon sent a request to the cedar in Lebanon, saying, 'Give your daughter to my son as a wife.' But a wild beast in Lebanon passed by and trampled the thistle underfoot."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have indeed defeated Edom, and your heart has become proud. Take pride in this achievement, but stay at home. Why should you provoke trouble that will lead to your downfall, bringing harm not only to yourself but also to Judah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Amaziah refused to listen. So Jehoash, the king of Israel, advanced with his forces, and he and Amaziah, the king of Judah, confronted each other in battle at Beth-shemesh, a town within the territory of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah was defeated by Israel, and each man fled to his own home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoash, the king of Israel, captured Amaziah, the king of Judah, who was the son of Jehoash and grandson of Ahaziah, at Beth-shemesh. He then advanced to Jerusalem and tore down a section of the city wall, stretching from the Ephraim Gate to the Corner Gate, a distance of four hundred cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took all the gold and silver, along with all the sacred vessels that were in the house of the LORD, as well as the treasures from the king’s palace. He also took hostages and then returned to Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Jehoash, including his achievements, his strength, and how he waged war against Amaziah, king of Judah, are they not recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoash died and was buried in Samaria alongside the kings of Israel. His son Jeroboam succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amaziah, the son of Joash, king of Judah, lived for fifteen years after the death of Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the remaining deeds of Amaziah, are they not recorded in the historical records of the kings of Judah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A plot was formed against him in Jerusalem, so he fled to Lachish. However, they pursued him to Lachish and killed him there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They transported him on horses, and he was buried in Jerusalem with his ancestors in the City of David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people of Judah took Azariah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in place of his father Amaziah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He rebuilt Elath and restored it to Judah after the king had died and joined his ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fifteenth year of the reign of Amaziah, the son of Joash, king of Judah, Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel, began his rule in Samaria. He reigned for forty-one years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed what was evil in the sight of the LORD and did not turn away from any of the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He restored the territory of Israel from the entrance of Hamath to the Sea of the Arabah, in fulfillment of the word of the LORD, the God of Israel, which He had spoken through His servant Jonah, the son of Amittai, the prophet from Gath-hepher.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD observed the suffering of Israel, and it was exceedingly severe. There was no one to protect them, no one to rescue them, and no one to come to their aid.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD did not declare that He would erase the name of Israel from existence; instead, He delivered them through the hand of Jeroboam, the son of Joash.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Jeroboam’s reign, including all his accomplishments, his military strength, how he waged war, and how he regained control of Damascus and Hamath—territories that had belonged to Judah but were now under Israel’s rule—are they not recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeroboam died and was buried with his ancestors, the kings of Israel, and his son Zachariah succeeded him as king.</span></p>






</body></html>