<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6pao2.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:bae440c7-8bc4-9e37-cb64-59d4997d024f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King David was now old and advanced in years. They covered him with blankets, but he could not get warm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So his servants said to him, "Let us search for a young virgin for my lord the king. She will attend to the king, care for him, and lie close to him, so that my lord the king may be kept warm."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they searched throughout all the regions of Israel for a beautiful young woman, and they found Abishag, a Shunammite, and brought her to the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The young woman was exceedingly beautiful, and she cared for the king and served him. However, the king did not have intimate relations with her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Adonijah, the son of Haggith, sought to elevate himself, declaring, "I will become king." He prepared chariots and horsemen for himself, along with fifty men to run ahead of him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His father had never reprimanded him by asking, "Why have you done this?" He was also a very handsome man, and his mother had given birth to him after Absalom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He consulted with Joab, the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest, and they supported Adonijah, joining his cause.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Zadok the priest, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, Nathan the prophet, Shimei, Rei, and the mighty warriors who were loyal to David did not side with Adonijah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Adonijah sacrificed sheep, oxen, and fattened cattle by the stone of Zoheleth, which is near En-rogel. He invited all his brothers, the king’s sons, and all the men of Judah who served the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah, the mighty warriors, and Solomon his brother—he did not summon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, Nathan spoke to Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon, saying, "Have you not heard that Adonijah, the son of Haggith, has made himself king, and our lord David is unaware of it?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, come, please allow me to offer you advice so that you may save your own life and the life of your son Solomon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and present yourself before King David, and say to him, "My lord the king, did you not swear to your servant, saying, 'Surely your son Solomon will reign after me, and he will sit on my throne'? Why then is Adonijah reigning?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, while you are still speaking with the king, I will come in after you and support what you have said.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Bathsheba entered the king’s private chamber. The king was very advanced in age, and Abishag the Shunammite was attending to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Bathsheba bowed low and paid homage to the king. The king said, "What do you desire?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She said to him, "My lord, you swore by the LORD your God to your servant, saying, 'Surely Solomon your son will reign after me, and he will sit on my throne.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, look, Adonijah has made himself king; and yet, my lord the king, you are unaware of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has slaughtered oxen, fattened cattle, and sheep in great numbers and has invited all the king’s sons, along with Abiathar the priest and Joab the commander of the army. But he has not invited your servant Solomon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, my lord the king, all of Israel is watching you, waiting for you to declare who will succeed you on the throne after you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If this is not addressed, when my lord the king passes away and joins his ancestors, both I and my son Solomon will be treated as guilty and condemned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And behold, while she was still speaking with the king, Nathan the prophet also arrived.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They informed the king, saying, "Nathan the prophet is here." When Nathan entered the king's presence, he bowed down before the king, his face to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nathan replied, "My lord the king, have you declared that Adonijah will succeed you as king and sit on your throne?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today, he has gone down and slaughtered many oxen, fattened cattle, and sheep in great numbers. He has invited all the king’s sons, the commanders of the army, and Abiathar the priest. Right now, they are eating and drinking in his presence, proclaiming, “Long live King Adonijah!”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But as for me—your servant—and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and your servant Solomon, he has not summoned us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Has my lord the king made this decision without informing your servant about who will succeed him on the throne after his reign?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King David responded and said, "Bring Bathsheba to me." So she came into the king's presence and stood before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king solemnly swore, saying, "As surely as the LORD lives, who has delivered me from every trouble..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as I swore to you by the LORD, the God of Israel, saying, "Your son Solomon will surely reign after me, and he will sit on my throne in my place," so I will indeed fulfill this promise today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Bathsheba bowed low, her face to the ground, and paid homage to the king, saying, "May my lord King David live forever!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King David said, "Summon Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada." They came and stood before the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king also instructed them, saying, "Take with you the servants of your lord, and have my son Solomon ride on my own mule. Then escort him down to Gihon."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there as king over Israel. Then sound the trumpet and proclaim, "Long live King Solomon!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, you shall follow him, so that he may come and sit upon my throne, for he will reign in my place. I have designated him to be the ruler over both Israel and Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, responded to the king and said, "Amen! May the LORD, the God of my lord the king, confirm this as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as the LORD has been with my lord the king, may He also be with Solomon, and may He establish his throne to be even greater than the throne of my lord King David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, along with the Cherethites and the Pelethites, went down and had Solomon ride on King David’s mule. They escorted him to Gihon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zadok the priest took a horn of oil from the sacred tent and anointed Solomon. Then they sounded the trumpet, and all the people proclaimed, "Long live King Solomon!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the people followed him, playing flutes and celebrating with immense joy, so much so that the ground seemed to split apart from the noise of their rejoicing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Adonijah and all his guests were finishing their meal, they heard the commotion. When Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, he asked, "Why is the city in such an uproar? What is the meaning of this noise?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While he was still speaking, Jonathan, the son of Abiathar the priest, arrived. Adonijah said to him, "Come in, for you are a courageous man, and you bring good news."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan replied to Adonijah, "Truly, our lord King David has appointed Solomon as king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king has sent Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, along with the Cherethites and the Pelethites to accompany him. They have made him ride on the king’s own mule.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king at Gihon. They have returned from there with great celebration, causing the city to resound with joy. This is the commotion you have heard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Solomon now sits upon the throne of the kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the king’s officials came to honor King David, our lord, saying, “May God make Solomon’s name more renowned than yours, and may his throne be even greater than your throne.” Then the king bowed in reverence on his bed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king also declared, "May the LORD, the God of Israel, be praised, for He has granted someone to sit on my throne this very day, and my own eyes have witnessed it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the guests who were with Adonijah became terrified, got up, and each one went their own way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Adonijah became afraid of Solomon, so he got up, went to the altar, and took hold of its horns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon was informed, saying, "Adonijah is afraid of King Solomon, for he has taken hold of the horns of the altar, declaring, 'Let King Solomon swear to me today that he will not put his servant to death by the sword.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Solomon declared, "If he proves himself to be a man of integrity, not a single hair of his head will fall to the ground. But if wickedness is found in him, he will surely die."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So King Solomon sent his men, and they brought him down from the altar. He came and bowed before King Solomon, and Solomon said to him, "Go back to your home."</span></p>






</body></html>