<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nehemiah Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6qq7p.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3c24352d-8a2d-9d39-d6c6-0f6112ba9213" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nehemiah Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the priests and Levites who returned with Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shecaniah, Rehum, and Meremoth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Iddo, Ginnetho, and Abijah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Miamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shemaiah, Joiarib, and Jedaiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, and Jedaiah were the leaders of the priests and their relatives during the time of Jeshua.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the Levites—Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, and Mattaniah, who was in charge of leading the songs of thanksgiving—along with his fellow Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Bakbukiah and Unni, their fellow Levites, stood opposite them during the assigned times of service.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeshua became the father of Joiakim, Joiakim became the father of Eliashib, and Eliashib became the father of Joiada.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Joiada became the father of Jonathan, and Jonathan became the father of Jaddua.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the time of Joiakim, the leading priests, who were heads of their ancestral families, were as follows: from the family of Seraiah, Meraiah; and from the family of Jeremiah, Hananiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the family of Ezra, Meshullam; from the family of Amariah, Jehohanan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the family of Melicu, Jonathan represented them; from the family of Shebaniah, Joseph represented them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the family of Harim, Adna; from the family of Meraioth, Helkai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the family of Iddo, Zechariah; from the family of Ginnethon, Meshullam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the family of Abijah, Zichri; from the family of Miniamin, Moadiah; from the family of Piltai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the family of Bilgah, Shammua was chosen; from the family of Shemaiah, Jehonathan was selected.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Of the family of Joiarib, Mattenai; of the family of Jedaiah, Uzzi.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the family of Sallai, Kallai; from the family of Amok, Eber.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Hilkiah, Hashabiah; from Jedaiah, Nethaneel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the time of Eliashib, Joiada, Johanan, and Jaddua, the Levites were recorded as the leaders of their ancestral families. The priests were also recorded, up until the reign of Darius the Persian.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Levi, who were the leading patriarchs, were recorded in the book of historical records up until the time of Johanan, the son of Eliashib.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of the Levites were Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua, the son of Kadmiel, along with their fellow Levites who stood opposite them. They were appointed to lead in praise and thanksgiving, following the command of David, the man of God. Each group took turns in their duties, standing watch opposite one another.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, and Akkub were gatekeepers stationed at the entrances of the gates, responsible for guarding and maintaining security at the thresholds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This took place during the time of Joiakim, the son of Jeshua, who was the son of Jozadak, as well as during the time of Nehemiah, the governor, and Ezra, the priest and scribe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the dedication ceremony for the wall of Jerusalem, they summoned the Levites from all their locations to bring them to Jerusalem, so they could celebrate the dedication with joy, offering thanksgivings and songs, accompanied by cymbals, harps, and lyres.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of the singers assembled together, coming both from the surrounding countryside near Jerusalem and from the villages of Netophah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, people came from the house of Gilgal, as well as from the fields of Geba and Azmaveth, for the singers had established villages for themselves in the surrounding areas of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests and the Levites consecrated themselves, and they also purified the people, the gates, and the wall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I led the leaders of Judah up onto the wall and assigned two large groups to give thanks. One group proceeded to the right along the wall, heading toward the Dung Gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After them, Hoshaiah and half of the leaders of Judah followed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Azariah, Ezra, and Meshullam,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah, and Jeremiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of the priests’ sons were assigned to play the trumpets: Zechariah, the son of Jonathan, who was the son of Shemaiah, who was the son of Mattaniah, who was the son of Michaiah, who was the son of Zaccur, who was the son of Asaph.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his brothers—Shemaiah, Azarael, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethaneel, and Judah, along with Hanani—carried the musical instruments of David, the man of God. Ezra the scribe led them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the Fountain Gate, which was directly in front of them, they ascended the steps leading up to the City of David, following the path along the wall, passing above the house of David, and continuing eastward as far as the Water Gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The second group of those who gave thanks proceeded in the opposite direction, and I followed them, along with half of the people on the wall. We went from beyond the Tower of the Ovens all the way to the Broad Wall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From above the Gate of Ephraim, and above the Old Gate, and above the Fish Gate, as well as the Tower of Hananeel and the Tower of Meah, all the way to the Sheep Gate, they came to a halt at the Prison Gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The two groups of those who offered thanksgiving stood in the house of God, along with me and half of the leaders who were with me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests—Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Michaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah—were present with trumpets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Maaseiah, Shemaiah, Eleazar, Uzzi, Jehohanan, Malchijah, Elam, and Ezer were present. The singers raised their voices loudly, with Jezrahiah overseeing them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, they presented abundant offerings and celebrated with great gladness, for God had filled them with immense joy. The wives and children also rejoiced, so that the sound of Jerusalem's joy could be heard far away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, certain individuals were assigned to oversee the storage rooms designated for the treasures, the offerings, the firstfruits, and the tithes. Their responsibility was to collect from the fields of the cities the portions prescribed by the law for the priests and Levites, as the people of Judah were filled with joy because of the priests and Levites who served faithfully.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Both the singers and the gatekeepers carried out their duties for their God and the duties of purification, following the commands given by David and his son Solomon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the days of David and Asaph long ago, there were leaders appointed over the singers, and they composed songs of praise and thanksgiving to God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the time of Zerubbabel and Nehemiah, all Israel provided daily portions for the singers and gatekeepers, each receiving their allotted share. They also set apart sacred offerings for the Levites, and the Levites, in turn, consecrated these offerings for the descendants of Aaron.</span></p>






</body></html>