<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6rnqx.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9a7a1a50-6f33-86fa-aa64-26a16ac70f29" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After the commotion had subsided, Paul summoned the disciples to him, embraced them, and then set out to travel to Macedonia.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After traveling through those regions and offering them much encouragement, he arrived in Greece.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He stayed there for three months. When he learned that the Jews were plotting against him as he was preparing to sail for Syria, he decided to return by way of Macedonia.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sopater from Berea joined him on the journey to Asia, along with Aristarchus and Secundus from Thessalonica, Gaius from Derbe, Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus from Asia.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The group that went ahead waited for us at Troas.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We set sail from Philippi after the Festival of Unleavened Bread and reached Troas in five days. There we stayed for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the first day of the week, when the disciples gathered together to share a meal, Paul spoke to them, as he was preparing to leave the next day. He continued his message until midnight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the upstairs room where they had assembled, there were many lamps burning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A young man named Eutychus was sitting in a window, overcome by a deep sleep. As Paul continued speaking at length, Eutychus, weighed down by sleep, fell from the third story and was picked up dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul went down, fell upon him, and embraced him, saying, "Do not be distressed, for his life is still within him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he had returned upstairs, he broke bread and ate. After spending a long time in conversation, continuing until daybreak, he then departed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They brought the young man back alive, and this brought them great comfort.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We went ahead to the ship and set sail for Assos, where we planned to take Paul on board. He had arranged it this way, intending to travel there on foot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he joined us at Assos, we welcomed him aboard and continued our journey to Mitylene.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We set sail from there and the following day arrived opposite Chios. The day after that, we reached Samos and stayed at Trogyllium. On the next day, we continued our journey and came to Miletus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul had decided to bypass Ephesus, as he did not want to spend additional time in Asia. He was eager to reach Jerusalem by the day of Pentecost, if at all possible.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Miletus, he sent a message to Ephesus, summoning the elders of the church.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived to meet him, he said to them, "You know how I have lived among you from the very first day I came to Asia, conducting myself in every situation with integrity and sincerity."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I served the Lord with complete humility, often with tears, and through many trials that came upon me because of the plots of the Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have held back nothing that would benefit you, but have openly declared and taught you everything, both in public gatherings and in private homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He proclaimed this message both to the Jews and to the Gentiles: the need to turn to God in repentance and to place their faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, look, I am compelled by the Spirit to go to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Holy Spirit testifies in every city, declaring that imprisonment and hardships await me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">None of these things trouble me, nor do I consider my own life as something of great importance to myself. My only aim is to complete my assigned task with joy and to fulfill the ministry I have received from the Lord Jesus: to bear witness to the good news of God’s grace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, listen carefully: I am certain that all of you, among whom I have traveled proclaiming the kingdom of God, will never see me again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I declare to you today that I am innocent of any responsibility for the blood of all people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I have not hesitated to make known to you the entire purpose and will of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, be diligent in caring for yourselves and for the entire flock over which the Holy Spirit has appointed you as overseers, to shepherd the church of God, which He acquired with His own blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am fully aware that after I am gone, fierce wolves will come among you, showing no mercy to the flock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From among your own group, some will rise up and distort the truth, speaking misleading things in order to lead followers away after themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, be alert and keep in mind that for three years I never stopped warning each of you, both night and day, with heartfelt tears.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, my brothers and sisters, I entrust you to God and to the message of His grace, which has the power to strengthen you and to grant you a share in the inheritance among all those who are set apart as holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have not desired or sought after anyone’s silver, gold, or clothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, you yourselves know that these hands of mine have provided for my own needs and for those who were with me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have demonstrated to you in every way that by working hard in this manner, you should help those who are weak and keep in mind the words of the Lord Jesus, who said, “It is more blessed to give than to receive.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After saying these things, he knelt down and prayed together with all of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They all wept deeply, embraced Paul, and kissed him affectionately.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were deeply grieved, especially because of what he had said—that they would never see his face again. Then they accompanied him to the ship.</span></p>






</body></html>