<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 46</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6rq6d.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d30230f3-f6e5-89da-74ca-1292c92f0402" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 46</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: The gate of the inner courtyard that faces east must remain closed during the six days of work, but on the Sabbath day it shall be opened, and on the day of the new moon it shall also be opened.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leader shall enter through the gateway of the outer porch and stand by the gatepost. The priests will prepare his burnt offering and his peace offerings, and he will worship at the entrance of the gate. Afterward, he will leave, but the gate will remain open until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, the people of the land shall come to worship before the LORD at the entrance of this gate on the Sabbath days and during the new moon celebrations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The burnt offering that the leader shall present to the LORD on the Sabbath day shall consist of six unblemished lambs and one unblemished ram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The grain offering shall be one ephah for each ram, and for the lambs, the grain offering shall be as much as one is able to provide, along with a hin of oil for every ephah of grain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the day of the new moon, you shall offer a young bull without defect, six lambs, and a ram. All of them must be without blemish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall prepare a grain offering of one ephah for each bull, one ephah for each ram, and for the lambs as much as he is able to provide, along with a hin of oil for each ephah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the prince enters, he shall come in through the entrance of the gateway and go out by the same way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people of the land come before the LORD during the appointed festivals, whoever enters through the north gate to worship must exit through the south gate, and whoever enters through the south gate must exit through the north gate. No one is to go back the way they entered; instead, they must leave by the opposite gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leader among them, when they enter, shall enter with them; and when they depart, he shall depart with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the festivals and sacred assemblies, the grain offering shall be one ephah for each bull, one ephah for each ram, and for the lambs as much as one is able to provide, along with a hin of oil for each ephah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the prince prepares a voluntary burnt offering or peace offering to the LORD as a freewill offering, the gate facing east shall be opened for him. He shall prepare his burnt offering and peace offerings just as he does on the Sabbath day. After he has presented his offerings, he shall leave, and the gate shall be closed once he has gone out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall offer a daily burnt sacrifice to the LORD, consisting of a year-old lamb without any defect. You are to prepare this offering every morning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall prepare a grain offering for it every morning, consisting of one-sixth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with one-third of a hin of oil. This grain offering is to be presented to the LORD as a continual offering, established as a permanent regulation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this manner, they shall prepare the lamb, the grain offering, and the oil each morning as a regular burnt offering to be presented continually.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: If a ruler gives a gift to any of his sons, it will belong to his sons as their inheritance; it will remain their permanent possession.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the prince gives a portion of his inheritance as a gift to one of his servants, it shall belong to that servant until the Year of Jubilee. After that, it must return to the prince. But the prince’s inheritance shall remain with his sons; it is their permanent possession.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the ruler must not seize the people's inheritance through oppression, forcing them out of their property. Instead, he must provide an inheritance for his sons from his own possessions, so that my people are not driven away, each person losing their rightful property.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he led me through the entrance, which was on the side of the gate, into the sacred chambers of the priests that faced north, I saw a space on the western side, extending along both sides.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "This is the place where the priests will cook the guilt offering and the sin offering, and where they will prepare the grain offering, so that they do not have to carry them out into the outer courtyard and risk making the people holy unintentionally."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he led me out to the outer courtyard and guided me around its four corners. In each corner of the courtyard, there was another smaller courtyard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In each of the four corners of the courtyard, there were smaller enclosed areas, each measuring forty cubits in length and thirty cubits in width. These four corner areas were all of the same size.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a row of chambers surrounding the building, encompassing all four sides. Beneath these rows of chambers, there were boiling areas constructed all around.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "These are the cooking areas where the servants of the temple will prepare the sacrifices offered by the people."</span></p>






</body></html>