<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 36</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s6x2ov.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d5cf47df-daa6-836a-c2e3-7d187258b725" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 36</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of the families of the descendants of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, who were part of the families of Joseph’s descendants, approached Moses and the leaders, who were the heads of the families of the Israelites, and presented their case before them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "The LORD instructed you, my lord, to distribute the land as an inheritance by lot to the Israelites. Furthermore, the LORD commanded you, my lord, to grant the inheritance of our brother Zelophehad to his daughters."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If they marry any of the sons from the other tribes of Israel, their inheritance will be taken away from the portion of our ancestors and added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they now belong. In this way, it will be removed from the share of our inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Year of Jubilee comes for the Israelites, their inherited property will be added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they now belong. In this way, their inheritance will be removed from the portion of the tribe of our ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses instructed the Israelites according to the command of the LORD, saying, "The tribe of Joseph's descendants has spoken rightly."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD commands concerning the daughters of Zelophehad: They may marry whomever they consider suitable, but they must marry within the family of their father’s tribe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, the inheritance of the Israelites will not pass from one tribe to another, for each of the Israelites must remain attached to the inheritance of the tribe of their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every daughter who inherits property in any tribe of the Israelites must marry someone from her father’s tribe, so that each Israelite may retain possession of the inheritance passed down from his ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The inheritance must not transfer from one tribe to another tribe, for each of the tribes of the Israelites is to remain bound to its own inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as the LORD had instructed Moses, the daughters of Zelophehad did exactly as they were commanded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mahlah, Tirzah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, married their cousins, the sons of their father’s brothers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They married into the families of the descendants of Manasseh, the son of Joseph, and their inheritance stayed within the tribe of their father’s family.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the commands and decrees that the LORD gave to the Israelites through Moses while they were on the plains of Moab, near the Jordan River, close to Jericho.</span></p>






</body></html>