<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 25</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s713l5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0b4992a8-be64-98cb-6351-09e14d4a5332" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 25</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah during the fourth year of the reign of Jehoiakim, son of Josiah, king of Judah. This was also the first year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what Jeremiah the prophet proclaimed to all the people of Judah and to all the residents of Jerusalem, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the thirteenth year of Josiah, the son of Amon, king of Judah, up to this very day—that is, the twenty-third year—the word of the LORD has come to me, and I have faithfully proclaimed it to you, rising early and speaking. Yet you have not listened.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has sent all His servants, the prophets, to you, diligently and persistently calling out to you; yet you have not listened or paid attention to hear their message.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "Turn back now, each of you, from your wicked ways and the evil of your actions, and settle in the land that the LORD has given to you and to your ancestors as a lasting possession forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not follow other gods to serve them or bow down to them, and do not provoke me to anger by the things you make with your hands. If you do these things, I will not bring harm upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet you have not listened to me, declares the LORD, so that you might provoke me to anger with the actions of your own hands, bringing harm upon yourselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD of hosts says: Because you have not listened to my words,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, I will summon all the northern tribes, declares the LORD, and Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my chosen instrument. I will bring them against this land, its inhabitants, and all the surrounding nations. I will completely devastate them, turning them into a shocking spectacle, an object of scorn, and a permanent wasteland.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, I will remove from them the sounds of joy and celebration, the voices of the bridegroom and the bride, the noise of grinding millstones, and the glow of the lamp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This entire land will become a wasteland and a source of horror. These nations will serve the king of Babylon for seventy years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: When seventy years have been completed, I will hold the king of Babylon and his nation accountable for their wrongdoing, declares the LORD. I will bring judgment upon the land of the Chaldeans and turn it into an everlasting wasteland.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring upon that land every word I have declared against it—everything written in this book, which Jeremiah has prophesied concerning all the nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many nations and powerful kings will make use of them as well, and I will repay them according to their actions and the deeds they have done with their own hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD, the God of Israel, said to me: "Take from my hand this cup filled with the wine of my wrath, and make all the nations to whom I send you drink from it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will drink, stagger, and become frantic because of the sword I will bring against them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I took the cup from the LORD's hand and made all the nations drink from it—those to whom the LORD had sent me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Specifically, Jerusalem, the cities of Judah, their kings, and their leaders, to make them a wasteland, a horror, a subject of scorn, and a curse—just as they are today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, along with his officials, his nobles, and all his people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the diverse groups of people, along with all the kings of the land of Uz, all the kings of the Philistine territories—including Ashkelon, Gaza, Ekron, and the remaining inhabitants of Ashdod—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Edom, Moab, and the descendants of Ammon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the kings of Tyre, all the kings of Sidon, and the kings of the coastlands across the sea...</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Dedan, Tema, Buz, and all those who dwell in the farthest regions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the kings of Arabia and all the kings of the mixed tribes who live in the wilderness...</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all the kings of Zimri, all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of the Medes...</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the kings of the north, both distant and nearby, one after another, and all the kingdoms of the world that exist on the face of the earth—the king of Sheshach will drink after them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you shall say to them, "This is what the LORD of Hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Drink, become drunk, vomit, fall down, and do not rise again, because of the sword I will send among you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If they refuse to take the cup from your hand and drink, then you must say to them, "This is what the LORD of hosts declares: You will surely drink."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for I am about to bring disaster upon the city that bears my name. Do you think you will escape punishment? You will not go unpunished, for I will summon the sword against all who live on the earth, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, prophesy to them all these words and say: The LORD will roar from on high and raise His voice from His holy dwelling. He will roar mightily over His dwelling place and shout like those who tread grapes, directing His voice against all the inhabitants of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A sound will reach to the farthest corners of the earth, for the LORD has a dispute with the nations; He will bring judgment against all humanity. He will deliver the wicked to the sword, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts declares: "Take note, disaster will spread from one nation to another, and a mighty storm will be stirred up from the farthest reaches of the earth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, those slain by the LORD will lie scattered from one end of the earth to the other. No one will mourn for them, nor will they be gathered or buried. They will be left like refuse on the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wail, you shepherds, and cry out; roll yourselves in the dust, you leaders of the flock. For the days of your slaughter and your scattering have come, and you will fall like a precious vessel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The shepherds will find no way to escape, nor will the leaders of the flock be able to flee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A voice of lament rises from the shepherds, and a wailing from the leaders of the flock will be heard, for the LORD has devastated their grazing land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The peaceful dwellings are destroyed because of the LORD's burning anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has abandoned his hiding place, like a lion leaving its den; for their land has been laid waste due to the cruelty of the oppressor and because of his burning wrath.</span></p>






</body></html>