<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezra Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s72zfu.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b918f7a9-fb32-be44-bf35-7cf96a93a84d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezra Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the seventh month arrived, and the people of Israel were settled in their towns, they assembled together as one united body in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, along with his fellow priests, and Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, along with his relatives, arose and built the altar of the God of Israel in order to present burnt offerings on it, as it is prescribed in the law of Moses, the man of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They set up the altar on its foundation, for they were afraid of the surrounding peoples. On it, they presented burnt offerings to the LORD, both in the morning and in the evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They also observed the Festival of Tabernacles, as it is prescribed, presenting the daily burnt offerings in the specified quantities, following the established practice, fulfilling the requirement for each day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, they presented the regular burnt offering, including those for the new moons and for all the appointed festivals of the LORD that were set apart as holy. They also offered the voluntary sacrifices that anyone willingly brought to the LORD as a freewill offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the first day of the seventh month, they began to present burnt offerings to the LORD. However, the foundation of the temple of the LORD had not yet been laid.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They provided funds to the stonemasons and carpenters, as well as food, drink, and oil to the people of Sidon and Tyre, so that they could transport cedar logs from Lebanon to the sea at Joppa. This was done in accordance with the authorization granted to them by Cyrus, the king of Persia.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the second year after their arrival at the house of God in Jerusalem, during the second month, Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, Jeshua son of Jozadak, along with the rest of their fellow priests and Levites, and all who had returned from exile to Jerusalem, began their work. They appointed the Levites who were twenty years old and above to oversee the progress of the work on the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeshua stood with his sons and his brothers, along with Kadmiel and his sons, and the descendants of Judah, all united to oversee the workers in the house of God. The sons of Henadad, along with their sons and their fellow Levites, also joined in this task.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the builders laid the foundation of the LORD’s temple, they positioned the priests in their sacred garments with trumpets, and the Levites, the descendants of Asaph, with cymbals, to offer praise to the LORD, following the instructions established by David, the king of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sang in alternating groups, praising and giving thanks to the LORD, declaring, "He is good, for his steadfast love endures forever toward Israel." Then all the people raised a mighty shout of joy as they praised the LORD, because the foundation of the house of the LORD had been laid.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, many of the priests, Levites, and family leaders—older men who had seen the first temple—wept loudly when they saw the foundation of this new house being laid before their eyes. At the same time, many others shouted with joy, raising their voices in celebration.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people were unable to distinguish the sound of joyful shouting from the sound of weeping, for the crowd cried out with such a loud noise that it could be heard far away.</span></p>






</body></html>