<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s739rl.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d3159e76-0e15-75f5-43f7-5de32fd34c6b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 23</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man who has been injured in the testicles or has had his genital organ cut off shall not be admitted into the assembly of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A child born outside of lawful marriage shall not be admitted into the assembly of the LORD; nor shall any of their descendants, even to the tenth generation, be admitted into the assembly of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No Ammonite or Moabite may ever be admitted into the assembly of the LORD, nor may any of their descendants, even to the tenth generation, be allowed to join the assembly of the LORD, forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they did not meet you with food and water along the way when you came out of Egypt, and because they hired Balaam son of Beor from Pethor in Mesopotamia to curse you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the LORD your God refused to listen to Balaam; instead, the LORD your God transformed the curse into a blessing for you, because the LORD your God deeply loved you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not seek their peace or their well-being all your days, forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not despise an Edomite, for he is your brother. You must not despise an Egyptian, because you were a foreigner in his land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants born to them may be admitted into the assembly of the LORD by the third generation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the army goes out to fight against your enemies, guard yourself against every evil act.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any man among you becomes unclean because of an impurity that happens to him during the night, he must go outside the camp and stay there. He is not permitted to enter the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When evening arrives, he must wash himself with water, and once the sun has set, he may return to the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall designate a place outside the camp where you may go to relieve yourself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall have a tool with your equipment; and when you go outside to relieve yourself, you shall dig with it, then turn and cover what comes from you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD your God moves about within your camp to protect you and to hand your enemies over to you. Therefore, your camp must remain holy, so that He does not see anything indecent among you and turn away from you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not return to his master a servant who has escaped from his master and come to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall live with you, among you, in the place he chooses within one of your towns, wherever he prefers; you must not mistreat him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">None of the daughters of Israel shall engage in prostitution, nor shall any of the sons of Israel practice male cult prostitution.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not bring the earnings of a prostitute or the payment of a male prostitute into the house of the LORD your God as an offering for any vow, for both of these are detestable to the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not charge interest when lending to your fellow Israelite—whether it is interest on money, food, or anything else that may be lent for profit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You may charge interest on a loan to a foreigner, but you must not charge interest on a loan to your fellow Israelite. This is so that the LORD your God may bless you in everything you undertake in the land you are entering to take possession of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you make a vow to the LORD your God, you must not delay in fulfilling it, for the LORD your God will certainly demand it from you, and failure to do so would be sin on your part.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if you choose not to make a vow, it will not be considered a sin against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must fulfill and carry out what has come from your lips—the voluntary offering you have vowed to the LORD your God, which you have promised with your own words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you enter your neighbor’s vineyard, you may eat as many grapes as you desire to satisfy your hunger, but you must not gather any into a container to take with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you enter your neighbor’s field of standing grain, you may pluck the heads of grain with your hand, but you must not use a sickle to harvest your neighbor’s standing grain.</span></p>






</body></html>