<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s74gto.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3b9e09ab-9dc0-618d-0bed-b6dbb347320a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A remarkable sign appeared in the sky: a woman clothed with the radiance of the sun, standing with the moon beneath her feet, and wearing a crown of twelve stars on her head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman, who was pregnant, cried out in anguish as she labored in childbirth, suffering greatly as she struggled to give birth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then another astonishing sight appeared in heaven: a huge red dragon with seven heads and ten horns, and on its heads were seven royal crowns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The dragon's tail swept away a third of the stars in the sky and hurled them down to the earth. Then the dragon positioned itself in front of the woman who was about to give birth, intending to devour her child as soon as it was born.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She gave birth to a male child, who is destined to rule all the nations with an iron scepter. And her child was taken up to God and to His throne.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman fled into the wilderness, where God had prepared a place for her, so that she might be sustained there for one thousand two hundred and sixty days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A great conflict arose in heaven: Michael and his angels waged war against the dragon, and the dragon, along with his angels, fought back.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they did not prevail; nor was their place found any longer in heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The great dragon was thrown out—that ancient serpent, known as the Devil and Satan, the one who deceives the entire world. He was hurled down to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I heard a loud voice in heaven proclaiming: "Now has come the deliverance, the power, the kingdom of our God, and the authority of his Messiah! For the accuser of our brothers and sisters, who relentlessly brought charges against them before our God day and night, has been cast down."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They triumphed over him through the blood of the Lamb and by the message of their testimony; they did not cling to their own lives, even when faced with death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let the heavens rejoice, and all who dwell in them. But woe to those who live on the earth and the sea! For the devil has come down to you, filled with intense fury, because he knows that his time is short.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the dragon realized that he had been thrown down to the earth, he began to pursue the woman who had given birth to the male child.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman was given two wings of a great eagle so that she could fly into the wilderness, to her appointed place, where she would be sustained and protected for a period of time—specifically, for a time, times, and half a time—away from the presence of the serpent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the serpent spewed a torrent of water from its mouth, rushing after the woman, intending to sweep her away in the flood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The earth came to the woman's aid, opening wide to swallow the flood that the dragon had spewed from its mouth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The dragon became furious with the woman and went to wage war against the rest of her offspring—those who obey God’s commandments and hold firmly to the testimony of Jesus Christ.</span></p>






</body></html>