<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s74ozv.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:674f9044-2d70-7aa4-f1c7-300d5f3a1f2e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the message of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, son of man, will you pass judgment, will you judge the city of bloodshed? Indeed, you are to confront her with all her detestable deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall say, "This is what the Lord GOD declares: The city spills blood within its midst, bringing about the time of its judgment, and it crafts idols to defile itself."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have become guilty because of the blood you have shed, and you have defiled yourself with the idols you have made. You have brought your days to a close and have reached the end of your years. Therefore, I have made you an object of disgrace among the nations and a subject of mockery in every land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who are near to you and those who are far away will mock you, for you are notorious and deeply troubled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the leaders of Israel, each one within you, used their authority to shed blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In you, they have shown contempt for father and mother; within your midst, they have oppressed the foreigner; in you, they have mistreated the fatherless and the widow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have shown contempt for my sacred things and have desecrated my Sabbaths.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Within you are people who spread malicious rumors to cause harm and bloodshed. Among you, they partake in idolatrous feasts on the mountains, and in your midst, they engage in shameful and immoral acts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In you, they have uncovered the shame of their fathers; in you, they have dishonored the woman who was set apart during her time of impurity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One man has committed a detestable act with his neighbor’s wife; another has shamefully defiled his daughter-in-law; and yet another has violated his own sister, his father’s daughter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Within you, they have accepted bribes to commit murder. You have charged excessive interest and exploited others for profit. You have greedily taken advantage of your neighbors through oppression and extortion, and in doing so, you have forgotten me, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will strike my hand against the unjust profit you have gained and the bloodshed that has occurred among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Will your heart remain steadfast, or will your hands stay strong in the days when I act against you? I, the LORD, have declared it, and I will carry it out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will scatter you among the nations and disperse you across the lands, and I will purge the impurity from within you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will take possession of your inheritance among yourselves in the presence of the nations, and you will come to understand that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD's message came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, the people of Israel have become like worthless dross to me. They are like a mixture of brass, tin, iron, and lead, all thrown into the furnace—nothing more than the impurities left over from refining silver."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: Because you have all turned into worthless dross, I will gather you together in the heart of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as one gathers silver, bronze, iron, lead, and tin into the furnace to kindle the fire and melt them down, so I will gather you in my anger and wrath. I will place you in the furnace and refine you, leaving you there until you are melted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, I will gather you together and expose you to the fiery heat of my wrath, and you will be melted in the midst of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as silver is melted in the furnace, so too will you be melted within it. Then you will understand that I, the LORD, have poured out my wrath upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD's message came to me, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, speak to her and say: You are a land that has not been purified, nor has it received rain in the day of wrath."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prophets within her have formed a conspiracy, acting like a roaring lion tearing apart its prey. They have destroyed lives, seized wealth and valuables, and caused many widows to mourn in her midst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests have disregarded my law and desecrated what is holy to me. They have failed to distinguish between what is sacred and what is common, and they have not shown the difference between what is ritually unclean and clean. They have turned a blind eye to my Sabbaths, and as a result, I have been dishonored among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her leaders within the city are like wolves tearing apart their prey. They shed blood and destroy lives, all to gain wealth through dishonest means.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her prophets have plastered over their sins with false assurances, proclaiming empty visions and deceitful predictions. They declare, "This is what the Lord GOD says," even though the LORD has not spoken.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The inhabitants of the land have practiced extortion and committed robbery. They have mistreated the poor and the needy, and they have unjustly oppressed the foreigner among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I searched among them for someone who would repair the broken wall and stand in the breach before me on behalf of the land, so that I would not have to destroy it. But I found no one.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I have poured out my anger upon them; I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath. I have brought the consequences of their own actions upon their heads, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>






</body></html>