<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 48</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s75gfm.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a525869c-4cbe-d9a7-a046-328be983c7db" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 48</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to this, you descendants of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel and have come from the lineage of Judah. You swear by the name of the LORD and invoke the God of Israel, but not sincerely or with integrity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they claim to belong to the holy city and rely on the God of Israel; the LORD of hosts is his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I proclaimed the past events from the very beginning; they came forth from my mouth, and I made them known. I acted swiftly, and they came to pass.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because I knew that you are stubborn, and your neck is like an iron sinew, unyielding, and your forehead is as hard as bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the very start, I have made these things known to you; before they happened, I revealed them to you. I did this so you could not say, ‘My idol has done this,’ or ‘My carved image or cast image has commanded it.’</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have heard all this; now see it for yourselves. Will you not proclaim it? I have revealed to you new things from this time—things hidden that you did not know before.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These things are being brought into existence now, not from the earliest times; indeed, before today you had not heard of them, so that you could not say, "Look, I already knew about them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, you did not listen; indeed, you did not understand; indeed, from the very beginning your ear was not attentive, for I knew that you would act with great deceit and were labeled a rebel from birth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the sake of my reputation, I will hold back my anger, and for the sake of my honor, I will restrain myself from destroying you, so that I do not bring you to an end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, I have purified you, though not as one refines silver; I have selected you through the trials of suffering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For my own sake—yes, for my own sake—I will act. How could I allow my name to be dishonored? I will not give my glory to anyone else.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to me, O Jacob, and Israel, whom I have called; I am He—I am the first, and I am also the last.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My own hand has established the foundation of the earth, and my right hand has measured out the heavens. When I summon them, they rise together at my command.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gather together, all of you, and listen! Which of these idols has ever foretold such things? The LORD has chosen him, the one He loves. He will carry out His purpose against Babylon, and His mighty power will be directed against the Chaldeans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I myself have declared it; indeed, I have summoned him. I have brought him forth, and he will succeed in his purpose.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Come close and listen to this: From the very beginning, I have not spoken in secret. From the time these things were established, I have been present. And now, the Lord GOD, along with His Spirit, has sent me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, says: I am the LORD your God, who instructs you for your benefit, who guides you in the way you should go.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If only you had listened to my commands! Then your peace would have flowed like a river, and your righteousness would have surged like the waves of the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your descendants would have been as numerous as the sand, and your offspring as countless as its grains. Their name would never have been erased or wiped out from my presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Leave Babylon behind, escape from the Chaldeans; proclaim it with joyful singing, announce it, spread the news to the farthest corners of the earth. Declare, "The LORD has redeemed His servant Jacob!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They did not grow thirsty when He guided them through the wilderness; He made water flow from the rock for them. He split the rock, and water poured out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares, "There is no peace for the wicked."</span></p>






</body></html>