<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s76yea.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2ec363c7-bd36-4ec4-077f-4e1b94bb2f1f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD's message came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, turn your attention toward Jerusalem and direct your words toward the sacred places. Prophesy against the land of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And proclaim to the land of Israel, "This is what the LORD says: I am against you. I will draw my sword from its sheath and cut off from you both the righteous and the wicked."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since I am determined to cut off both the righteous and the wicked from among you, my sword will be drawn from its sheath and will strike down all people, from the south to the north.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that all people may understand that I, the LORD, have drawn my sword from its sheath, and it will not be put back again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, son of man, groan deeply, with anguish in your heart, and with bitter sorrow groan in their sight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they ask you, "Why are you sighing?" you shall reply, "Because of the news that is coming. When it arrives, every heart will fail, all hands will grow weak, every spirit will despair, and all knees will tremble like water. Look, it is coming, and it will surely happen, declares the Lord GOD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, prophesy and declare, 'This is what the Lord says: A sword, a sword has been sharpened and polished to perfection.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sword is sharpened to inflict a devastating slaughter; it is polished to gleam brightly. Should we then rejoice? It scorns the rod meant for my son, treating it as no more significant than any ordinary piece of wood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has prepared it to be polished, so that it may be wielded. This sword has been sharpened and polished, ready to be placed in the hand of the one who will strike.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Weep and wail, son of man, for this disaster will come upon my people; it will strike all the leaders of Israel. The terror of the sword will fall upon them. Therefore, beat your thigh in anguish and despair.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because this is a test, and what if the sword despises even the rod of authority? It will no longer exist, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you, son of man, prophesy and clap your hands together. Let the sword strike a third time, the sword of the slain—the sword that brings down the mighty, the sword that enters their innermost chambers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have directed the edge of the sword against all their gates, so that their courage may fail, and their destruction may increase. Ah! The sword is polished, sharpened, and ready for the slaughter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go in whichever direction you choose, whether to the right or to the left, wherever you decide to go.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also clap my hands together, and I will satisfy my wrath. I, the LORD, have declared it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message of the LORD came to me once more, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, son of man, mark out two paths for the sword of the king of Babylon to take. Both paths will originate from the same land. Then choose a location—select it at the starting point of the road leading to the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prepare a path so that the sword may reach Rabbah of the Ammonites and Judah in fortified Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Babylon stood at the crossroads, at the junction of two paths, seeking guidance through divination. He prepared his arrows for casting lots, consulted his idols, and examined the liver for signs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At his right hand was the practice of divination concerning Jerusalem, to assign commanders, to give the signal for slaughter, to raise the battle cry with loud shouts, to position battering rams against the gates, to construct siege ramps, and to build siege towers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For them, it will seem like a deceptive prophecy in their eyes—those who have made solemn oaths. But He will bring their guilt to mind, so that they may be held accountable.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: Because you have caused your guilt to be remembered—your sins have been exposed, and your transgressions are evident in all your actions—since, I declare, you have brought yourselves to remembrance, you will be seized by force.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you, unholy and wicked ruler of Israel, your time has come—the day when your wrongdoing will reach its end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: "Take off the royal turban and remove the crown. Things will not remain as they are. Lift up the lowly and bring down the exalted."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will completely overthrow, overthrow, overthrow it, and it will remain in ruins until the one who has the rightful claim comes; then I will give it to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you, son of man, prophesy and declare: This is what the Lord GOD says concerning the Ammonites and their taunts. Say to them: The sword, the sword is drawn, polished for slaughter, sharpened to destroy because of its gleaming brilliance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While they offer you false visions and deceitful prophecies, they lead you astray, causing you to join with those who are doomed—the wicked, whose time of judgment has arrived, when their wrongdoing will reach its end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Should I return it to its sheath? I will judge you in the place where you were formed, in the land of your origin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will unleash my fury upon you, directing the fire of my wrath against you, and I will hand you over to ruthless and destructive men, skilled in bringing ruin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will become fuel for the fire; your blood will be spilled across the land, and you will no longer be remembered—for I, the LORD, have declared it.</span></p>






</body></html>