<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s78mar.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cb66b279-df0d-f13c-6ff2-6e4a71e2179f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is a message concerning the valley of vision. What troubles you now, that you have all gone up to the rooftops?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You who are filled with chaos, a city of turmoil, a city of revelry: your slain are not killed by the sword, nor do they die in battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All your leaders have fled together, captured by the archers; all who are found within you are bound as prisoners, even those who fled from distant places.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore I said, "Turn away from me; let me weep bitterly. Do not try to comfort me, for the devastation of my people is too great to bear."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is a day of distress, of trampling, and of confusion from the Lord GOD of hosts in the valley of vision. There is the tearing down of walls and the desperate cry to the mountains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elam carried the quiver, accompanied by chariots and mounted warriors, while Kir prepared the shield for battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A time will come when your most fertile valleys will be filled with chariots, and horsemen will position themselves in battle formation at the city gates.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He stripped away the defenses of Judah, and on that day you turned your attention to the weapons stored in the House of the Forest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have also observed the broken-down sections of the City of David, which are numerous, and you have collected the waters of the lower pool.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have counted the houses of Jerusalem, and you have torn down houses to strengthen the wall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You also constructed a reservoir between the two walls to hold the water from the old pool. Yet you did not look to the One who created it, nor did you honor the One who designed it long ago.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the Lord GOD Almighty called for weeping, mourning, shaving of heads, and wearing sackcloth as a sign of grief and repentance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, there is joy and celebration—people are slaughtering oxen and killing sheep, eating meat and drinking wine. They say, "Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we will die."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD of hosts made this clear to me: "This sin of yours will not be forgiven or removed until the day you die," declares the Lord GOD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD of hosts says: Go, approach this steward, Shebna, who is in charge of the palace, and say to him:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What do you have here, and who do you have here, that you have carved out a tomb for yourself in this place, like someone who cuts out a tomb on a high place, or carves a dwelling for himself in the rock?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: The LORD will take you away with overwhelming force into captivity, and He will completely cover you [with judgment].</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will certainly seize you and hurl you like a ball into a vast and distant land. There you will die, and there the chariots in which you once gloried will become a disgrace to your master’s house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will remove you from your position, and you will be brought down from your high status.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day that I will summon my servant Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will dress him in your robe and fasten him with your sash. I will entrust your authority into his hands, and he will act as a father to the people of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will place the key to the house of David on his shoulder; when he opens, no one will be able to shut, and when he shuts, no one will be able to open.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will firmly establish him like a nail driven into a secure place, and he will become a throne of honor for his father’s household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all the honor and splendor of his father's household will rest upon him—every descendant and every possession, from the smallest vessels, such as cups, to the largest, like flagons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, declares the LORD of hosts, the firmly secured peg will be removed, cut down, and fall. The weight that was hung upon it will be cut off, for the LORD has spoken.</span></p>






</body></html>