<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 24</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7ag9x.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:87ab9a9f-7617-035a-e1f2-804826efc56a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 24</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Saul had returned from pursuing the Philistines, he was informed, saying, "Look, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul selected three thousand of the finest soldiers from all of Israel and set out to search for David and his men among the rocky cliffs where the wild goats roam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He came to the sheep pens along the way, where there was a cave. Saul went inside to relieve himself, while David and his men were staying in the recesses of the cave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of David said to him, "This is the day the LORD spoke of when He told you, 'I will hand your enemy over to you, and you may deal with him as you see fit.'" Then David quietly got up and cut off the corner of Saul’s robe without being noticed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this happened, David was deeply troubled in his conscience because he had cut off the corner of Saul’s robe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to his men, "May the LORD prevent me from doing such a thing to my master, the LORD's anointed, by raising my hand against him, for he is the one chosen and consecrated by the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David restrained his men with these words and did not allow them to attack Saul. Then Saul got up from the cave and continued on his way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, David also got up, left the cave, and called out to Saul, saying, “My lord the king!” When Saul turned around, David bowed low with his face to the ground and paid him homage.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And David said to Saul, "Why do you listen to the words of those who say, 'Look, David is seeking to harm you'?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, today your own eyes have witnessed how the LORD delivered you into my hands in the cave. Some urged me to kill you, but I chose to spare you. I said, “I will not raise my hand against my lord, for he is the LORD’s anointed.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, my father, look—yes, look at the edge of your robe in my hand. For when I cut off the corner of your robe, I did not kill you. Understand and see that there is no evil or wrongdoing in my actions, and I have not sinned against you. Yet you are pursuing me to take my life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the LORD judge between me and you, and may the LORD hold you accountable for what you have done to me. However, I will not raise my hand against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the ancient proverb says, "Wickedness comes from the wicked." But I will not lay a hand on you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whom is the king of Israel pursuing? Who are you chasing? A mere dead dog, a single flea?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let the LORD be the judge and decide between me and you. May He examine the matter, defend my case, and rescue me from your power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David finished speaking these words to Saul, Saul responded, "Is that your voice, my son David?" Then Saul raised his voice and wept.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to David, "You are more righteous than I, for you have repaid me with good, while I have repaid you with evil."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today you have shown how you have treated me with kindness, for when the LORD delivered me into your hands, you did not kill me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone encounters their enemy, would they let them go unharmed? Therefore, may the LORD repay you with good for what you have done for me today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, listen carefully: I am fully convinced that you will indeed become king, and that the kingdom of Israel will be firmly established under your rule.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, now swear to me by the LORD that you will not eliminate my descendants after me, and that you will not erase my name from my father’s family.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David made a solemn promise to Saul. Then Saul returned to his home, but David and his men went up to the stronghold.</span></p>






</body></html>