<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7aj76.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5002f96b-e283-a521-b3c9-101668388dea" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hannah prayed and said, "My heart rejoices in the LORD; my strength is lifted up by the LORD. I speak boldly against my enemies, for I delight in your deliverance."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There is no one as holy as the LORD, for there is no one besides you; there is no rock like our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Stop speaking with such excessive pride; do not let arrogance come from your mouth. For the LORD is a God who knows all things, and by Him every action is judged.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bows of the mighty warriors have been shattered, and those who once faltered are now clothed with strength.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who once had plenty have now hired themselves out for bread to survive, while those who were hungry have been satisfied. As a result, the woman who was barren has borne seven children, but the mother of many has grown weak and weary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has the power to take life and to give it; He can bring people down to the grave and raise them up again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD causes poverty and grants wealth; he humbles and he exalts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He lifts the poor from the dust and raises the needy from the ash heap, seating them among nobles and granting them a place of honor. For the foundations of the earth belong to the LORD, and upon them he has established the world.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord will protect the steps of his faithful ones, but the wicked will be silenced in darkness; for no one will triumph by their own strength.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The enemies of the LORD will be utterly shattered; from heaven He will thunder against them. The LORD will execute judgment across the entire earth. He will grant strength to His chosen king and raise high the power of His anointed one.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elkanah returned to his home in Ramah. Meanwhile, the boy served the LORD under the guidance of Eli the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Eli's sons were wicked men; they did not acknowledge or honor the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007254"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The customary practice of the priests with the people was that whenever someone offered a sacrifice, the priest’s servant would come while the meat was still boiling, carrying a three-pronged meat hook in his hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007255"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He would plunge the fork into the pan, kettle, cauldron, or pot, and whatever the fork brought up, the priest would take for himself. This is how they treated all the Israelites who came to Shiloh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007256"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before the fat was burned, the priest’s servant came and said to the man offering the sacrifice, "Give me some meat to roast for the priest, because he will not accept boiled meat from you, only raw."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007257"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone said to him, "Let them first burn the fat completely, and then take as much as you wish," he would reply, "No, you must give it to me now; otherwise, I will take it by force."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007258"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the sin of the young men was exceedingly grave in the sight of the LORD, because they treated the LORD's offering with contempt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007259"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Samuel served in the presence of the LORD as a young boy, wearing a linen ephod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007260"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, his mother made him a small robe and brought it to him each year when she went up with her husband to offer the annual sacrifice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007261"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, saying, "May the LORD grant you children by this woman in return for what she has dedicated to the LORD." Then they returned to their home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007262"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD took notice of Hannah, and as a result, she became pregnant and gave birth to three sons and two daughters. Meanwhile, the boy Samuel continued to grow up in the presence of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007263"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Eli was now very advanced in age, and he heard about everything his sons were doing to all Israel—how they were sleeping with the women who served at the entrance to the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007264"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "Why are you doing such things? I have heard reports from all these people about your wicked actions."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007265"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No, my sons; what I am hearing is not good. You are causing the Lord's people to sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007266"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If one person sins against another, a judge can mediate and decide the matter. But if someone sins against the LORD, who will plead their case? Yet they did not listen to their father’s warning, because the LORD had determined to bring judgment upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007267"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boy Samuel continued to grow, and he found favor both with the LORD and with people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man of God came to Eli and said to him, "This is what the LORD says: Did I not clearly reveal myself to your father's family when they were in Egypt, serving in Pharaoh's household?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Did I not select him from all the tribes of Israel to serve as my priest, to present offerings on my altar, to burn incense, and to wear the ephod in my presence? And did I not grant to your father’s family all the fire offerings presented by the people of Israel?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why do you show such contempt for my sacrifice and offering, which I have commanded to be made in my dwelling place? Why do you honor your sons more than me, allowing them to take the choicest portions of all the offerings brought by my people Israel, just to satisfy your own desires?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: I once said that your family and the house of your father would serve before me forever. But now the LORD says: Far be it from me! For I will honor those who honor me, but those who despise me will be treated with contempt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, the time is coming when I will cut off your strength and the strength of your father’s family, so that no one in your household will reach old age.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will witness distress in my dwelling place, despite all the good things God grants to Israel, and never again will there be an elderly man in your household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person of yours whom I do not remove from serving at my altar will only bring sorrow to your eyes and grief to your heart. And all the descendants of your household will die in the prime of their lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This will be a sign to you: what is about to happen to your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas—they will both die on the same day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will raise up for myself a faithful priest who will act according to what is in my heart and mind. I will establish for him a lasting dynasty, and he will serve continually in the presence of my anointed one forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: Everyone who remains in your family will come and bow down before him, pleading for a small piece of silver or a scrap of bread. They will say, "Please, assign me to one of the priestly duties so that I may have at least a bit of bread to eat."</span></p>






</body></html>