<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 32</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7b7os.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f2bc3444-9391-9747-bda6-62f0a9149f40" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 32</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twelfth year, on the first day of the twelfth month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Human being, raise a lament for Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and say to him: You were like a young lion among the nations, and you were like a great sea monster in the oceans. You surged forth with your power, churning the waters with your might, and you muddied their rivers with your actions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: I will cast my net over you with a great assembly of people, and they will haul you up in my net.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I will abandon you on the land and hurl you out onto the open field. I will let all the birds of the sky settle on you, and I will fill the wild animals of the entire earth with your remains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021254"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will scatter your flesh across the mountains and fill the valleys with your remains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021255"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also drench the land where you swim with your blood, reaching even to the mountains, and the streams will overflow with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021256"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I bring about your downfall, I will darken the heavens and cause the stars to lose their brightness. I will cover the sun with clouds, and the moon will no longer shine its light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021257"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause all the radiant lights of the heavens to grow dark over you, and I will bring darkness upon your land, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021258"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also trouble the hearts of many people when I bring about your destruction among the nations, in lands you have never known.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021259"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, I will cause many nations to be astonished at you, and their kings will be utterly terrified because of you when I wield my sword before them. They will tremble constantly, each one fearing for his own life, on the day of your downfall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021260"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the Lord GOD says: The sword of the king of Babylon will come against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021261"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring down your great numbers by the swords of mighty warriors—all of them fearsome among the nations. They will plunder the splendor of Egypt, and its vast multitude will be utterly destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021262"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also destroy all the animals that live by the abundant waters; no longer will human feet disturb them, nor will the hooves of animals cause them any harm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021263"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I will make their waters abundant and cause their rivers to flow smoothly, like oil, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021264"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I cause the land of Egypt to become desolate, and the land is stripped of all that once filled it, when I strike down all who live there, then they will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021265"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the mourning song that will be sung for her: the women of the nations will mourn for her. They will grieve for her, for Egypt, and for all her vast multitude, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021266"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twelfth year, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021267"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, mourn for the great multitude of Egypt, and bring them down—both her and the daughters of the renowned nations—to the depths of the earth, alongside those who descend into the grave."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who can compare to you in splendor? Go down and join those who are uncircumcised, lying in death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will fall among those killed by the sword; she is handed over to the sword. Drag her away, along with all her vast crowds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The most powerful among the mighty will address him from the depths of the grave, alongside those who aided him. They have descended; they lie there, uncircumcised, struck down by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Assyria is there, along with all her assembled forces; their graves surround them. All of them were killed, struck down by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their graves are located on the sides of the pit, and her assembly surrounds her burial place. All of them were killed, struck down by the sword—those who once spread fear throughout the land of the living.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elam is there, along with all her vast army surrounding her grave. All of them have been killed, struck down by the sword. They descended uncircumcised into the depths of the earth, those who once spread fear throughout the land of the living. Now, they bear their disgrace alongside those who descend to the grave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have prepared a resting place for her among the slain, surrounded by all her multitudes. Her graves are all around her, filled with the uncircumcised, those killed by the sword. Though they once spread terror in the land of the living, they now carry their shame with those who descend to the grave. She lies among the slain, placed in the midst of those who have fallen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Meshech, Tubal, and all their multitudes are there. Their graves surround them, all of them uncircumcised, killed by the sword, even though they once spread fear throughout the land of the living.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will not rest in death alongside the mighty warriors of the uncircumcised who have fallen and descended to the grave with their weapons of war. Though they placed their swords beneath their heads and their shields over their bodies, their sins remain upon their bones, for they were once the terror of the mighty in the land of the living.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, you will be shattered among the uncircumcised and will lie with those who have been slain by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021278"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here is Edom, along with its kings and all its leaders, who, despite their strength, have been struck down and lie among those slain by the sword. They will rest with the uncircumcised and with those who descend to the grave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021279"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the leaders of the north, all of them, and all the Sidonians, who have fallen among the slain. Despite their former terror, they are now disgraced by their own strength. They lie uncircumcised alongside those killed by the sword, bearing their shame with those who descend to the grave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021280"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh will see them and be consoled over his entire army—Pharaoh and all his forces, who have been killed by the sword, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I have brought my terror upon the land of the living. He will be laid to rest among the uncircumcised, alongside those slain by the sword—Pharaoh and all his vast army, declares the Sovereign LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>