<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 63</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7cuf3.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:260cde38-a3e5-ff84-a6b4-49c0c5c856f7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 63</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who is this coming from Edom, with garments stained red from Bozrah? Who is this, majestic in his attire, marching in the fullness of his strength? It is I, proclaiming righteousness, powerful to deliver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why are your clothes so red, and your garments like those of someone who has been treading in a winepress?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have pressed the winepress alone, and no one from the people was with me. In my anger, I will trample them down, and in my fury, I will crush them. Their blood will splatter on my garments, and I will stain all my clothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the day of retribution is in my heart, and the time of my redemption has arrived.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked around, but there was no one to help; I was astonished that no one came to support me. So my own strength brought about my salvation, and my righteous anger sustained me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will trample the nations in my anger, and in my wrath I will make them stagger as if drunk. I will bring their power crashing down to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will recount the steadfast love of the LORD and the praiseworthy deeds of the LORD, according to all that the LORD has granted us—His abundant goodness toward the house of Israel, which He has shown them in accordance with His compassion and the abundance of His unfailing love.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he declared, "Surely they are my people, children who will not deal falsely." And so he became their Savior.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In all their suffering, He also suffered, and the angel of His presence delivered them. Out of His love and compassion, He redeemed them; He lifted them up and carried them throughout all the days of old.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But they rebelled and grieved His holy Spirit; therefore, He turned against them as an enemy and fought against them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he recalled the days of old, the time of Moses and his people, and he asked, "Where is the one who brought them up from the sea with the shepherd of his flock? Where is the one who placed his holy Spirit among them?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who guided them by the hand of Moses, with his majestic power, parting the waters before them, to establish for himself an eternal reputation?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who guided them through the depths, like a horse on level ground in the wilderness, so that they would not stumble?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Like a beast that descends into the valley, the Spirit of the LORD guided him to find rest. In the same way, you led your people, so that you might establish for yourself a glorious and majestic name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gaze down from heaven, and observe from your holy and glorious dwelling place. Where is your passionate zeal and your mighty power? Where are the deep feelings of compassion and your tender mercies toward me? Have they been held back or restrained?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, you are our Father, even if Abraham does not recognize us, and Israel does not acknowledge us. You, O LORD, are our Father, our Redeemer; your name has been eternal from ages past.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, why have you allowed us to stray from your ways and hardened our hearts so that we no longer fear you? Turn back to us, for the sake of your servants, the tribes that are your chosen inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your holy people took possession of it for only a short time; our enemies have trampled down your sanctuary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We belong to You, but You have never ruled over them; they have not been called by Your name.</span></p>






</body></html>