<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Esther Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7d6ft.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:62f83526-4a9d-a615-76e7-df5a216bd351" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Esther Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that night, the king could not sleep, so he ordered that the book of records, the chronicles, be brought and read aloud to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It was discovered in the records that Mordecai had reported about Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king’s eunuchs who served as guardians of the entrance. These men had plotted to assassinate King Ahasuerus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king asked, "What honor or recognition has been given to Mordecai for this?" The king's attendants who served him replied, "Nothing has been done for him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king asked, "Who is in the court?" At that moment, Haman had entered the outer court of the king’s palace to speak to the king about hanging Mordecai on the gallows he had prepared for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king’s attendants said to him, “Look, Haman is standing in the courtyard.” The king replied, “Allow him to enter.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Haman entered, and the king asked him, "What should be done for the man whom the king wishes to honor?" Haman thought to himself, "Who would the king desire to honor more than me?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Haman replied to the king, "For the man whom the king wishes to honor,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Bring the royal robes that the king himself wears, the horse that the king rides, and the royal crown that is placed upon his head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let these garments and this horse be given into the hands of one of the king’s most distinguished officials, so that they may dress the man whom the king desires to honor. Then, let them lead him on horseback through the city streets and announce before him, “This is what is done for the man whom the king takes pleasure in honoring.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king said to Haman, "Hurry, take the robes and the horse, just as you have suggested, and do exactly as you have said for Mordecai the Jew, who sits at the king’s gate. Do not leave out anything you have proposed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Haman took the royal robes and the horse, dressed Mordecai in them, and led him on horseback through the city streets, announcing before him, "This is what is done for the man whom the king desires to honor."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mordecai returned to the entrance of the king’s court. Meanwhile, Haman hurried to his home in deep distress, covering his head as a sign of mourning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Haman recounted to his wife Zeresh and all his friends everything that had happened to him. Then his advisors and his wife Zeresh said to him, "If Mordecai, before whom you have begun to fall, is of Jewish descent, you will not succeed against him. Instead, you will certainly fall before him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While they were still speaking with him, the king's officials arrived and hurried to bring Haman to the banquet that Esther had prepared.</span></p>






</body></html>