<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7dsaj.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:eafe4afc-33ef-694e-0254-10e1cad61dba" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 23</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message of the LORD came to me once more, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, there were two women, both daughters of the same mother:"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They engaged in immoral acts in Egypt; they indulged in promiscuity in their youth. There, their bodies were violated, and their virginity was defiled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The names of the two women were Aholah, the elder, and Aholibah, her sister. They belonged to me, and they bore sons and daughters. As for their names, Aholah represents Samaria, and Aholibah represents Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aholah acted unfaithfully while she belonged to me; she lusted after her lovers, the Assyrians, who were her neighbors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were dressed in blue, both captains and leaders, all of them handsome young men, skilled horsemen riding on their steeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, she engaged in her acts of unfaithfulness with them—with all the elite men of Assyria and with all those she lusted after. Through her involvement with their idols, she defiled herself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She did not abandon the promiscuous ways she had brought from Egypt, for in her youth, men had relations with her, violated her virginity, and subjected her to their immoral acts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I have handed her over to her lovers, to the Assyrians, whom she passionately desired.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They uncovered her shame: they took her sons and daughters and put her to death with the sword. She became notorious among women, for they carried out judgment against her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When her sister Oholibah saw this, she became even more depraved in her excessive lust than her sister, and her acts of prostitution surpassed those of her sister.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She became infatuated with the Assyrians, her neighbors—captains and rulers dressed in splendid attire, horsemen mounted on horses, all of them handsome and desirable young men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I observed that she had become defiled, and that both of them followed the same path.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She continued to increase her acts of unfaithfulness, for when she saw images of men painted on the wall—portraits of Chaldeans depicted in bright red—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were dressed with belts around their waists, wearing elaborate, brightly colored turbans on their heads, all of them appearing like noblemen, resembling the Babylonians from Chaldea, the land of their birth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As soon as she laid eyes on them, she became infatuated with them and sent messengers to them in Chaldea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Babylonians came to her in acts of intimacy, but they defiled her through their immoral behavior. She became tainted by their actions, and her heart turned away from them in disgust.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So she exposed her acts of unfaithfulness and revealed her shame. As a result, my heart turned away from her, just as my heart had turned away from her sister.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet she increased her acts of unfaithfulness, recalling the days of her youth when she engaged in promiscuity in the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For she was infatuated with their lovers, whose physical strength was like that of donkeys, and whose virility was as potent as that of stallions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, you brought to mind the immorality of your youth, when you allowed the Egyptians to violate your purity and defile the breasts of your youth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, O Aholibah, this is what the Lord GOD says: Listen, I will stir up your former lovers against you, those from whom you have turned away, and I will bring them against you from every direction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Babylonians, along with all the Chaldeans, the people of Pekod, Shoa, and Koa, and all the Assyrians allied with them—all of them were impressive young men, leaders and officials, noblemen of high rank and fame, all mounted on horses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will advance against you with chariots, wagons, and wheels, accompanied by a great multitude of people. They will position themselves around you with shields, bucklers, and helmets. I will appoint them to execute judgment, and they will judge you according to their own standards.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will direct my intense anger against you, and they will act with fierce hostility toward you. They will cut off your nose and ears, and those who survive will fall by the sword. They will seize your sons and daughters, and those who remain will be consumed by fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will strip you of your garments and seize your beautiful jewelry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, I will put an end to your immorality and the prostitution you brought from the land of Egypt. You will no longer look to them with longing, nor will you remember Egypt anymore.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the Lord GOD says: "Listen, I am about to hand you over to those you despise, to those from whom you have turned away in disgust.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will treat you with hostility and seize all the fruits of your labor, leaving you stripped and exposed. The shame of your promiscuity will be laid bare, revealing both your indecent acts and your unfaithfulness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring these consequences upon you because you have pursued unfaithfulness like a prostitute, chasing after foreign nations, and because you have defiled yourself with their idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have followed the same path as your sister; therefore, I will place her cup of judgment into your hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: You will drink from your sister's cup, a cup that is deep and wide. You will be mocked and ridiculed, for it holds much.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be overwhelmed with drunkenness and grief, with the cup of shock and ruin, with the same cup that your sister Samaria drank.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will drink it down and drain it dry, and you will smash its pieces to bits, tearing at your own breasts in anguish, for I have declared it, says the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: Because you have forgotten me and pushed me out of your thoughts, you will now bear the consequences of your shameful actions and your unfaithfulness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD further said to me, "Son of man, will you judge Aholah and Aholibah? Indeed, declare to them their detestable acts."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have committed adultery, and their hands are stained with blood. They have been unfaithful to me by worshiping idols, and they have even sacrificed their own children—the sons they bore to me—by making them pass through the fire, offering them up to be consumed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, they have committed this against me: they have defiled my sanctuary on the very same day and have desecrated my Sabbaths.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For when they sacrificed their children to their idols, they came on the very same day into my sanctuary to defile it. Look, this is what they have done within my own house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moreover, you sent messengers to summon men from distant places, and behold, they came. For them, you prepared yourself—washing your body, painting your eyes, and adorning yourself with jewelry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You sat upon a magnificent couch, with a table set before it, on which you placed my incense and my oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A voice of a carefree multitude accompanied her, and along with the ordinary people, Sabeans were brought from the wilderness. They adorned their hands with bracelets and placed beautiful crowns on their heads.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said to her who was well-practiced in adultery, "Will they now engage in acts of unfaithfulness with her, and will she do the same with them?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet they approached her as one approaches a prostitute. In this way, they pursued Aholah and Aholibah, those immoral women.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The righteous will judge them as they judge adulteresses and those who shed blood, for they are guilty of adultery, and bloodshed stains their hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the Lord GOD says: I will raise up a force against them and hand them over to be uprooted and plundered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The assembly shall stone them to death and strike them down with their swords. They shall kill their sons and daughters and burn their houses with fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, I will put an end to indecent behavior in the land, so that all women may learn not to follow your shameful ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will suffer the consequences of your immoral actions, and you will bear the guilt of your idolatry. Then you will come to understand that I am the Sovereign LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>