<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7hvc0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:50dc2cf6-93b7-0d26-4932-a2911e32e800" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After we had departed from them and set sail, we traveled directly to Cos, and the next day we arrived at Rhodes, and from there we continued on to Patara.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We found a ship bound for Phoenicia, boarded it, and set sail.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When we sighted Cyprus, we passed it on our left and sailed on toward Syria, arriving at Tyre, where the ship was scheduled to unload its cargo.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We found some disciples there and stayed with them for seven days. These disciples, speaking under the guidance of the Spirit, urged Paul not to go up to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After we had completed those days, we set out on our journey. They all accompanied us, including their wives and children, until we were outside the city. There, on the shore, we knelt down and prayed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After we had said our farewells to one another, we boarded the ship, and they went back to their homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After completing our journey from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais, where we greeted the fellow believers and stayed with them for one day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The following day, those of us who were traveling with Paul set out and arrived in Caesarea. We went to the home of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven original deacons, and stayed with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This man had four daughters, all unmarried, who had the gift of prophecy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While we stayed there for several days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he came to us, he took Paul’s belt, tied his own hands and feet with it, and said, “This is what the Holy Spirit declares: In this way, the Jews in Jerusalem will bind the man who owns this belt and hand him over to the Gentiles.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When we heard these things, both we and the people of that place urged him not to go up to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Paul responded, "Why are you weeping and distressing me so deeply? For I am prepared not only to be bound but even to die in Jerusalem for the sake of the name of the Lord Jesus."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he could not be convinced, we stopped trying, saying, "May the Lord's will be done."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After those days, we gathered our belongings and traveled up to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of the disciples from Caesarea also traveled with us, bringing along a man named Mnason from Cyprus, a long-time follower of Christ, with whom we were to stay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When we arrived in Jerusalem, the believers welcomed us with great joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, Paul accompanied us to meet with James, and all the elders of the community were gathered there as well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After greeting them, he gave a detailed account of the works God had accomplished among the Gentiles through his ministry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they heard this, they praised the Lord and said to him, "You see, brother, how many thousands of Jews have come to believe, and all of them are deeply devoted to the law."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have been told about you that you teach all the Jews living among the Gentiles to abandon the laws of Moses, instructing them not to circumcise their children or follow the traditional customs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What does this mean, then? The crowd will certainly gather, because they will hear that you have arrived.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, do what we advise you: We have four men who have taken a vow upon themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take them, and purify yourself along with them, and cover the expenses for them so that they may shave their heads. This will let everyone know that the things they have been told about you are not true, and that you yourself live in an orderly manner, keeping the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding the Gentiles who have come to faith, we have written and decided that they are not required to follow such practices, except that they must abstain from food sacrificed to idols, from consuming blood, from eating the meat of strangled animals, and from sexual immorality.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Paul took the men, and the following day, after purifying himself along with them, he entered the temple to announce the completion of the days of purification. This was done so that an offering could be presented for each of them, as required.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the seven days were nearly completed, the Jews from Asia, upon seeing him in the temple, incited the crowd and seized him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shouting loudly, the men of Israel cried out, "Help us, fellow Israelites! This is the man who teaches everyone everywhere to oppose our people, our law, and this sacred place. Moreover, he has brought Greeks into the temple and defiled this holy sanctuary!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">(For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, and they assumed that Paul had brought him into the temple.)</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire city was stirred up, and the people rushed together. They seized Paul and dragged him out of the temple, and immediately the doors were shut.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they were preparing to kill him, news reached the commander of the garrison that the entire city of Jerusalem was in turmoil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At once, he took soldiers and centurions and rushed down to them. When the crowd saw the commander and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the commanding officer approached, seized him, and ordered him to be bound with two chains. He then inquired about his identity and what he had done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some in the crowd shouted one thing, while others shouted something else, creating confusion. Since the commander could not determine the truth because of the uproar, he ordered that Paul be taken into the barracks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he reached the steps, it happened that the soldiers had to carry him because of the intense pressure and aggression from the crowd.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A large crowd of people followed behind, shouting, "Get rid of him!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Paul was being taken into the barracks, he said to the commanding officer, "May I speak with you?" The officer replied, "Do you know how to speak Greek?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are you not that Egyptian who, some time ago, caused a disturbance and led four thousand assassins out into the wilderness?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Paul replied, "I am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, and a citizen of no insignificant city. I beg you, allow me to speak to the people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After being granted permission, Paul stood on the steps and motioned with his hand to the people. When a deep silence fell over the crowd, he addressed them in the Hebrew language, saying,</span></p>






</body></html>