<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7jw0x.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:bfc78dce-91e0-5fc6-7304-4d5c6c3c013f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joshua summoned the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "You have faithfully followed all that Moses, the servant of the LORD, commanded you, and you have obeyed everything I instructed you to do."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have not abandoned your fellow Israelites for all these days up to now, but have faithfully carried out the duty commanded by the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now the LORD your God has granted rest to your fellow Israelites, just as He promised them. Therefore, you may now return and go to your homes, to the land that is your possession, which Moses, the servant of the LORD, gave you on the east side of the Jordan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be very careful to carry out the command and the law that Moses, the servant of the LORD, gave you: to love the LORD your God, to walk in all His ways, to obey His commandments, to hold fast to Him, and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your soul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joshua pronounced a blessing over them and sent them on their way. Then they returned to their homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses had granted the eastern half of the tribe of Manasseh possession of land in Bashan, while Joshua allotted territory to the other half among their fellow tribes on the western side of the Jordan. When Joshua sent them back to their homes, he blessed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to them, "Go back to your homes with great wealth—abundant livestock, silver, gold, bronze, iron, and plenty of clothing. Share the plunder taken from your enemies with your fellow Israelites."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Reuben, the descendants of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh left the rest of the Israelites at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan, and set out to return to the region of Gilead, the land that belonged to them as their inheritance. This was in accordance with the command the LORD had given through Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived at the region of the Jordan River, within the land of Canaan, the descendants of Reuben, the descendants of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh constructed an altar there by the Jordan—a large and conspicuous altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites received word that the descendants of Reuben, the descendants of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh had built an altar facing the land of Canaan, near the Jordan River, at the place where the Israelites had crossed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Israelites heard about it, the entire community of Israel assembled at Shiloh to prepare for battle against them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites sent Phinehas, the son of Eleazar the priest, to the land of Gilead to meet with the descendants of Reuben, the descendants of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And with him were ten leaders, one from each of the chief families of the tribes of Israel; each of these leaders was the head of their ancestral household among the clans of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They went to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh in the land of Gilead and addressed them, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the entire assembly of the LORD declares: What is this act of unfaithfulness you have committed against the God of Israel, turning away today from following the LORD by building an altar for yourselves? Are you now rebelling against the LORD?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Is the sin of Peor not enough for us? We have not yet been purified from it to this very day, even though a plague came upon the assembly of the LORD because of it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you turn away today from following the LORD, and if you rebel now against the LORD, then tomorrow He will be angry with the entire community of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the land you possess is considered unclean, then cross over into the land of the LORD’s possession, where the LORD’s tabernacle resides, and settle among us. But do not rebel against the LORD, nor turn against us, by building an altar other than the altar of the LORD our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Did not Achan, the son of Zerah, commit an act of unfaithfulness by taking what was devoted to destruction, and as a result, God's anger came upon the entire community of Israel? That man did not suffer the consequences of his sin alone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the descendants of Reuben, the descendants of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh responded, addressing the leaders of the thousands of Israel, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD, the God of all gods, the LORD, the God of all gods, He knows, and Israel will also know—if this act was done in rebellion or in deliberate sin against the LORD, (do not save us today).</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have built this altar not to turn away from following the LORD, nor to offer burnt offerings, grain offerings, or peace offerings on it. If we have done so with such intentions, may the LORD himself hold us accountable.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if we have not done this out of concern for this matter, thinking that in the future your descendants might say to our descendants, “What connection do you have with the LORD, the God of Israel?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has established the Jordan River as a boundary between us and you, the descendants of Reuben and Gad. You have no share in the LORD, and as a result, your descendants may cause our descendants to stop fearing the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, we decided, "Let us now prepare to build an altar, not for burnt offerings or for sacrifices."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let this serve as a witness between us and you, and for the generations that come after us, so that we may carry out the service of the LORD before Him with our burnt offerings, sacrifices, and peace offerings. This is to ensure that your children will not say to our children in the future, "You have no share in the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, we said, "In the future, if they or our descendants say to us, we can respond, 'Look at the replica of the altar of the LORD that our ancestors built. It was not made for burnt offerings or sacrifices, but as a witness between us and you.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May it never be that we would rebel against the LORD or turn away from following Him today by building an altar for burnt offerings, grain offerings, or sacrifices, apart from the altar of the LORD our God that stands before His tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Phinehas the priest, along with the leaders of the assembly and the heads of the clans of Israel who were with him, heard the words spoken by the descendants of Reuben, Gad, and Manasseh, they were satisfied.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Phinehas, the son of Eleazar the priest, spoke to the people of Reuben, Gad, and Manasseh, saying, "Today we recognize that the LORD is present among us, because you have not committed this act of unfaithfulness against Him. By doing so, you have spared the people of Israel from falling under the LORD's judgment."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Phinehas, the son of Eleazar the priest, along with the leaders, returned from the Reubenites and the Gadites in the land of Gilead to the land of Canaan, where the rest of the Israelites were. They brought back a report to the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The decision pleased the Israelites, and they praised God. They resolved not to wage war against the tribes of Reuben and Gad or to destroy the land where they had settled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Reuben and the descendants of Gad named the altar "Ed," declaring, "It will serve as a witness between us that the LORD is God."</span></p>






</body></html>