<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7mosm.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:068c4190-b45e-4ab9-1d3f-c51d07a26fc7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I observed in the right hand of the one seated on the throne a scroll, inscribed both on the inside and on the back, secured with seven seals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw a mighty angel proclaiming in a powerful voice, "Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one in heaven, on earth, or under the earth was able to open the scroll or even look at it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I cried deeply, for no one was found worthy to open the scroll, to read it, or even to look at it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then one of the elders said to me, "Do not weep. Look, the Lion from the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has triumphed and is worthy to open the scroll and break its seven seals."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I looked, and there in the center of the throne and among the four living creatures, and among the elders, stood a Lamb that appeared to have been slain. It had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He approached and took the scroll from the right hand of the one seated on the throne.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he took the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb. Each of them held a harp and golden bowls filled with incense, which represent the prayers of God’s people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sang a new song, declaring, "You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals, because you were slain, and with your blood you purchased people for God from every tribe, language, people, and nation."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have appointed us to be a kingdom and priests to serve our God, and we will reign on the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I looked, and I heard the sound of countless angels surrounding the throne, along with the living creatures and the elders. Their number was innumerable—tens of thousands multiplied by tens of thousands, and thousands upon thousands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They proclaimed with a loud voice: "The Lamb who was slain is worthy to receive power, wealth, wisdom, strength, honor, glory, and praise!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I heard every living being—those in heaven, on the earth, beneath the earth, and in the sea, along with all that is in them—declaring, "Praise, honor, glory, and power belong to the one who sits on the throne and to the Lamb, forever and ever!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the four living creatures said, "Amen." And the twenty-four elders fell down and worshiped the one who lives forever and ever.</span></p>






</body></html>