<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 51</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7otvq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cbc76b61-12d5-b599-645f-de2c632a4650" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 51</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "Listen, I am going to stir up a destructive force against Babylon and against those who live among the people who rise up against me. It will be like a devastating wind."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will send winnowers to Babylon, who will thoroughly sift her and strip her land bare. For in the time of her calamity, they will rise against her from every side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let the archer draw his bow against the one who bends it, and let him take aim at the one who proudly wears his armor. Show no mercy to her young men; completely destroy all her warriors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, those who are killed will lie dead in the land of the Chaldeans, and those who are pierced through will fall in her streets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Israel has not been abandoned, nor has Judah been deserted by their God, the LORD of hosts, even though their land has been overwhelmed with sin against the Holy One of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Escape from the heart of Babylon, and save yourselves. Do not perish because of her guilt, for this is the time of the LORD's judgment; He will repay her for what she has done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Babylon was like a golden cup in the hand of the LORD, intoxicating the whole earth. The nations drank from her wine, and because of it, they have become deranged.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Babylon has suddenly collapsed and been utterly destroyed. Wail for her; bring healing ointment for her wounds, in the hope that she might be restored.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We sought to heal Babylon, but she could not be healed. Abandon her, and let each of us return to our own land, for her judgment reaches to the heavens and rises even to the skies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has revealed our vindication; come, let us proclaim in Zion the deeds of the LORD our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sharpen the arrows and prepare the shields! The LORD has stirred up the spirit of the kings of the Medes, for His purpose is directed against Babylon, to bring about its destruction. This is the LORD’s vengeance, the vengeance for His temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Raise a banner on the walls of Babylon; strengthen the guard, station the watchmen, and prepare the ambushes. For the LORD has both planned and carried out what He declared against the people of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O you who reside by vast waters, rich in treasures, your end has arrived, and the full extent of your greed is now complete.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD of hosts has sworn by Himself, declaring, "I will surely fill you with people, as numerous as locusts, and they will raise a triumphant cry against you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He created the earth by His mighty power, established the world through His wisdom, and stretched out the heavens by His profound understanding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When He speaks, the heavens are filled with an abundance of waters; He causes the mists to rise from the farthest reaches of the earth. He creates lightning to accompany the rain and brings the wind forth from His storehouses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every person is made foolish by their own knowledge; every craftsman is put to shame by the idols they create, for their cast images are nothing but lies, and there is no life or breath in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are worthless, the product of deception; at the time of their judgment, they will be destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The portion of Jacob is not like these idols, for he is the Creator of all things, and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance. The LORD of Armies is his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are my battle axe and my weapons of war. With you, I will shatter nations, and with you, I will bring down kingdoms.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">With you, I will shatter the horse and its rider; with you, I will crush the chariot and its driver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">With you, I will shatter both man and woman; with you, I will crush the old and the young alike; with you, I will destroy the young man and the young woman.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also shatter, along with you, the shepherd and his flock; and with you, I will crush the farmer and his team of oxen; and with you, I will break apart leaders and rulers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will repay Babylon and all the people of Chaldea for all the harm they have done in Zion, as you have witnessed, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, I am against you, O destructive mountain, declares the LORD—you who bring ruin to the whole earth. I will reach out my hand against you, hurl you down from the heights, and reduce you to a charred and desolate mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will not take from you a stone to serve as a cornerstone, nor a stone for a foundation; for you will be left in desolation forever, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Raise a banner in the land, sound the trumpet among the nations, and prepare the nations to march against her. Summon the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, and Ashkenaz to join forces against her. Appoint a commander to lead the attack, and bring forth their horses, swarming like a relentless horde of locusts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gather the nations against her—prepare the kings of the Medes, their commanders, all their rulers, and every land under their authority.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land will quake and grieve, for every intention of the LORD will be carried out against Babylon, to turn the land of Babylon into a desolate wasteland, devoid of inhabitants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The mighty warriors of Babylon have ceased to fight; they have stayed in their strongholds. Their strength has failed; they have become like women. They have set her dwellings on fire; her bars are shattered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One messenger will run to meet another, and one courier will hurry to meet the next, to inform the king of Babylon that his city has been captured from every side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The waterways are blocked, the reeds have been set ablaze with fire, and the warriors are filled with terror.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD of Hosts, the God of Israel, declares: The daughter of Babylon is like a threshing floor; it is time to thresh her. In just a little while, the time of her harvest will arrive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, has consumed me; he has crushed me and left me like an empty vessel. He has devoured me as a dragon would, filling his stomach with my finest treasures. He has driven me out and cast me aside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the violence inflicted upon me and my body be charged against Babylon, the people of Zion will declare; and may my blood be upon the people of Chaldea, Jerusalem will proclaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says: "Listen, I will take up your cause and bring justice on your behalf. I will dry up her sea and cause her springs to run dry."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Babylon will be reduced to ruins, a place where wild creatures dwell, a scene of desolation and scorn, with no one living there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will roar together like mighty lions; they will growl fiercely like young lions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the midst of their passion, I will prepare their feasts, and I will cause them to become drunk, so that they may celebrate and fall into a deep, unending sleep, never to awaken again, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will lead them to their destruction like lambs being taken to the slaughter, like rams and male goats destined for the same fate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020254"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How has Sheshach been captured! How has the pride of the entire world been seized! How has Babylon become a shocking spectacle among the nations!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020255"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sea has surged over Babylon; she is overwhelmed by the tumult of its waves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020256"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her cities have become ruins, a barren and desolate wasteland, a land where no one lives, and no human being even passes through.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020257"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring judgment upon Bel in Babylon, and I will take from his mouth what he has devoured. The nations will no longer stream to him; indeed, the wall of Babylon will collapse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020258"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My people, leave her midst, and each of you save yourselves from the LORD's burning wrath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020259"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not let your heart grow faint or be afraid because of the reports that will spread throughout the land. For a report will come one year, and then another report will follow in the next year. There will be violence in the land, with rulers rising up against rulers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020260"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully: the time is coming when I will execute judgment upon the carved idols of Babylon. Her entire land will be thrown into confusion, and all her slain will fall in her midst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020261"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the heavens and the earth, and everything within them, will resound with lamentation for Babylon, for the destroyers will come against her from the north, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020262"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as Babylon has caused the deaths of Israel's people, so too will the slain of the entire earth fall in Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020263"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You who have survived the sword, depart and do not linger. Remember the LORD from a distant land, and let Jerusalem occupy your thoughts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020264"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We are deeply ashamed and dismayed, for we have been subjected to disgrace. Humiliation has overwhelmed us, as foreigners have invaded the sacred places of the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020265"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully—the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will bring judgment upon her carved idols. Throughout all her land, the wounded will cry out in agony.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020266"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if Babylon were to rise as high as the heavens and fortify the pinnacle of its power, destroyers will still come against it from me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020267"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A cry of anguish rises from Babylon, and immense devastation comes from the land of the Chaldeans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because the LORD has devastated Babylon and silenced her mighty clamor; though her waves once roared like vast waters, the thunder of her voice has been stilled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because the destroyer has come upon her, even upon Babylon, and her warriors have been captured, every one of their bows has been shattered; for the LORD, the God of justice, will certainly repay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause her leaders to become drunk—her princes, her wise men, her commanders, her officials, and her warriors. They will fall into a deep and eternal sleep, never to awaken again, declares the King, whose name is the LORD of Armies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">58 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts declares: The massive walls of Babylon will be completely demolished, and her towering gates will be consumed by fire. The people will toil for nothing, and the nations will exhaust themselves in the flames, only to grow weary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">59 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that Jeremiah the prophet gave to Seraiah, the son of Neriah and grandson of Maaseiah, when he accompanied Zedekiah, the king of Judah, to Babylon in the fourth year of Zedekiah’s reign. Now Seraiah was a high-ranking official of calm and steady character.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">60 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jeremiah recorded in a scroll all the calamity that would befall Babylon—indeed, every word that was written concerning Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">61 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeremiah said to Seraiah, "When you arrive in Babylon and see it, and when you read all these words aloud..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">62 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall say, "O LORD, you have declared judgment against this place, to destroy it completely, so that no one—neither human nor animal—will remain in it. It will become a desolate wasteland forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">63 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you have finished reading this scroll, you must tie a stone to it and throw it into the middle of the Euphrates River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">64 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall declare, "This is how Babylon will fall and will not rise again because of the disaster I will bring upon her. Her people will grow weary and exhausted." These are the words of Jeremiah.</span></p>






</body></html>