<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Corinthians Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7peun.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f281926f-6640-2751-d5ef-293e7f82a265" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Corinthians Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the act of providing aid to the believers, it is unnecessary for me to write to you about it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am aware of your eagerness, and I have proudly told the people of Macedonia about it, explaining that Achaia has been prepared since last year. Your enthusiasm has inspired many others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have sent the brothers ahead so that our confidence in you regarding this matter will not prove to be empty. As I mentioned earlier, this is to ensure that you are fully prepared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To ensure that if those from Macedonia come with me and find you unprepared, we—not to mention you—would not be put to shame regarding this confident assurance we have expressed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I considered it essential to urge the brothers and sisters to go ahead of me to you and prepare in advance the generous gift you had previously promised. This way, your offering will be ready as a genuine act of generosity, not as something given reluctantly or under pressure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What I mean is this: Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows generously will also reap generously.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each person should give as they have decided in their heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God has the power to provide you with every kind of grace in abundance, so that in every situation, having everything you need, you may overflow with good works of every kind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As it is written: "He has generously distributed his gifts; he has given to the poor; his acts of righteousness endure forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who provides seed for the sower will also supply bread for your nourishment. He will multiply the seed you have sown and increase the harvest of your righteous deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have been abundantly provided with every resource, enabling you to give generously in every way. This generosity, which flows through us, results in thanksgiving to God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The management of this ministry not only meets the needs of the believers but also overflows with many expressions of gratitude to God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they experience the proof of this ministry, they will glorify God for your demonstrated obedience to the gospel of Christ and for your generous sharing with them and with everyone else.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they earnestly pray for you, deeply desiring your well-being because of the abundant grace of God that is evident in your lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We give thanks to God for his indescribable gift.</span></p>






</body></html>