<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 30</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7r1ll.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3a342e80-16c3-93da-39e6-1ecdf4537dca" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 30</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah sent messengers throughout all Israel and Judah, and he also wrote letters to Ephraim and Manasseh, urging them to come to the house of the LORD in Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover in honor of the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king, along with his officials and the entire assembly in Jerusalem, had decided to observe the Passover in the second month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were unable to observe it at that time because the priests had not properly consecrated themselves, and the people had not yet assembled in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The matter was agreeable to the king and to the entire assembly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they issued a decree to announce throughout all Israel, from Beersheba to Dan, that the people should come to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover in honor of the LORD, the God of Israel. For it had not been observed in this manner for a long time, as prescribed in the written instructions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The messengers carried the letters from the king and his officials throughout all Israel and Judah, delivering the king’s command, which said: “People of Israel, return to the LORD, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, so that He may turn back to the remnant of you who have escaped the power of the kings of Assyria.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not follow the example of your ancestors or your relatives, who sinned against the LORD, the God of their forefathers. As a result, He handed them over to ruin, as you can plainly see.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be stubborn and resistant, as your ancestors were, but instead submit yourselves to the LORD. Enter into His sanctuary, which He has set apart as holy forever, and worship the LORD your God. In doing so, His burning anger may turn away from you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you return to the LORD, your relatives and your children will receive compassion from those who have taken them captive, so that they will be able to return to this land. For the LORD your God is gracious and merciful, and He will not turn His face away from you if you come back to Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the messengers went from city to city throughout the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, all the way to Zebulun. But the people ridiculed and mocked them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, some from the tribes of Asher, Manasseh, and Zebulun humbled themselves and journeyed to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In Judah, the hand of God moved among the people, uniting their hearts to carry out the command of the king and the leaders, as directed by the word of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A large number of people gathered in Jerusalem to celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread in the second month, forming a very great assembly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They got up and removed all the altars that were in Jerusalem, including the altars used for burning incense, and threw them into the Kidron Valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fourteenth day of the second month, they slaughtered the Passover lamb. The priests and the Levites, feeling remorseful, purified themselves and brought the burnt offerings into the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They took their positions according to the established order, following the instructions given by Moses, the man of God. The priests then sprinkled the blood, which they had received from the Levites, as the law prescribed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For there were many in the assembly who had not purified themselves, so the Levites were responsible for slaughtering the Passover lambs for everyone who was not ceremonially clean, in order to consecrate them to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A large number of the people—many from Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun—had not purified themselves, yet they ate the Passover meal in a way that did not follow the prescribed instructions. But Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, "May the good Lord pardon everyone."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who sets their heart to seek God—the LORD, the God of their ancestors—even if they have not been purified according to the ritual cleansing required for the sanctuary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD listened to Hezekiah and brought healing to the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites who were present in Jerusalem celebrated the Festival of Unleavened Bread for seven days with great joy. The Levites and the priests praised the LORD each day, playing loud instruments as they sang to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah spoke encouragingly to all the Levites who were skilled in teaching the true knowledge of the LORD. They celebrated the feast for seven days, eating together, presenting peace offerings, and confessing their devotion to the LORD, the God of their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire assembly decided to celebrate for an additional seven days, and so they joyfully observed another seven days of festivity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Hezekiah of Judah provided the assembly with a thousand bulls and seven thousand sheep, and the leaders of the people also gave the assembly a thousand bulls and ten thousand sheep. Additionally, a large number of priests consecrated themselves for the occasion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the assembly of Judah, along with the priests and the Levites, and the entire assembly that had come from Israel, including the foreigners who had left the land of Israel and now lived in Judah, were filled with joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was immense joy in Jerusalem, for nothing like this had been seen in the city since the days of Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Levitical priests stood up and pronounced a blessing over the people. Their voices were heard, and their prayer ascended to His holy dwelling place, all the way to heaven.</span></p>






</body></html>