<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7rlxx.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d29f29fb-6ada-9102-c022-cd004b5b291d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When King Arad the Canaanite, who lived in the southern region, heard that Israel was approaching by the route of the spies, he attacked Israel and captured some of them as prisoners.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Israel made a solemn promise to the LORD, saying, "If you will truly deliver this people into my hands, then I will completely destroy their cities."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD listened to the plea of Israel and handed the Canaanites over to them. They completely defeated them and annihilated their cities. So they named that place Hormah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They traveled from Mount Hor along the route toward the Red Sea, going around the land of Edom. But the people became deeply discouraged because of the difficult journey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people complained against God and against Moses, saying, "Why have you brought us out of Egypt to die here in the wilderness? There is no bread, no water, and we are sick of this miserable food!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD sent venomous snakes among the people, and they bit them, causing many Israelites to die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the people approached Moses and said, "We have sinned by speaking against the LORD and against you. Please pray to the LORD, asking Him to remove the serpents from us." And Moses prayed on behalf of the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Make a serpent of bronze and mount it on a pole. Then, whenever someone who has been bitten looks at it, they will live."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses crafted a bronze serpent and mounted it on a pole. Whenever someone was bitten by a serpent, if they looked at the bronze serpent, they would live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites set out and camped at Oboth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They traveled from Oboth and camped at Ije-abarim, in the wilderness that lies east of Moab, toward the direction of the sunrise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They moved on from there and set up camp in the Valley of Zered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From there, they moved on and camped on the far side of the Arnon River, which lies in the wilderness extending from the territory of the Amorites. The Arnon serves as the boundary between Moab and the Amorites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, it is written in the Book of the Wars of the Lord: "What He accomplished at the Red Sea, and in the streams of Arnon."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And by the stream of the valleys that flows down to the settlement of Ar, which lies along the border of Moab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they traveled from there to Beer, which is the well of which the LORD had spoken to Moses, saying, "Assemble the people, and I will provide water for them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Israel sang this song: "Rise up, O well! Sing out to it!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders dug the well, and the nobles of the people dug it under the guidance of the lawgiver, using their staffs. From the wilderness, they journeyed on to Mattanah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They traveled from Mattanah to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Bamoth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from Bamoth in the valley, which lies in the territory of Moab, to the summit of Pisgah, which overlooks the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Israel sent messengers to Sihon, king of the Amorites, with this message:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Allow us to pass through your land. We will not stray into your fields or vineyards, nor will we drink water from your wells. We will stay on the main road, the king’s highway, until we have traveled beyond your territory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sihon refused to allow Israel to pass through his territory. Instead, he gathered all his forces and marched out to confront Israel in the wilderness. He advanced to Jahaz and engaged Israel in battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Israel struck him down with the sword and took possession of his land, from the Arnon River to the Jabbok River, extending as far as the territory of the Ammonites, for the boundary of the Ammonites was strongly fortified.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Israel captured all these cities and settled in the cities of the Amorites, including Heshbon and all its surrounding villages.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Heshbon was the city of Sihon, the king of the Amorites. He had waged war against the previous king of Moab and seized all his land, extending his control as far as the Arnon River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, those who speak in proverbs say: "Come to Heshbon; let the city of Sihon be rebuilt and established."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A fire has blazed forth from Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon. It has devoured Ar of Moab and the rulers of the heights of Arnon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible for you, Moab! You are destroyed, O people of Chemosh! Your sons who escaped and your daughters have been taken captive by Sihon, the king of the Amorites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have attacked them; Heshbon has been destroyed all the way to Dibon, and we have devastated the land as far as Nophah, which extends to Medeba.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Israel settled in the territory of the Amorites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses sent men to scout out the region of Jaazer, and they captured its surrounding villages. They then drove out the Amorites who were living there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They changed direction and advanced toward Bashan. Og, the king of Bashan, came out to confront them, along with all his forces, to engage in battle at Edrei.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Do not fear him, for I have handed him over to you, along with all his people and his land. You shall deal with him as you dealt with Sihon, the king of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they struck him down, along with his sons and all his people, until no one remained alive. Then they took possession of his land.</span></p>






</body></html>