<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Malachi Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7uebu.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:765bb205-a8b0-dd89-bad3-dc73ceae030f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Malachi Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, O priests, this command is directed to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you refuse to listen and fail to take this to heart, refusing to honor my name, says the LORD of hosts, I will send a curse upon you, and I will turn your blessings into curses. In fact, I have already begun to curse them, because you have not taken this matter seriously.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will ruin your crops and scatter filth on your faces—the filth from the sacrifices you offer during your sacred festivals. You will be carried away with it, utterly disgraced.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will come to understand that I have issued this command to you so that my covenant may remain with Levi, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My covenant with him was one of life and peace, and I granted these to him because of the reverence he showed me, for he stood in awe of my name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He spoke the truth faithfully, and no deceit was found on his lips. He lived in harmony with me, walking in integrity and justice, and he turned many away from wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The lips of the priest should preserve knowledge, and people should seek instruction from his mouth, for he is the messenger of the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you have turned away from the right path; you have caused many to stumble in their understanding of the law; you have undermined the covenant I made with Levi, says the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I have made you despised and lowly in the eyes of all the people, because you have not followed my ways but have shown favoritism in applying the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do we not all share one Father? Has not one God created us all? Why then do we act deceitfully, each of us against our own brother, by violating the covenant made by our ancestors?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah has acted deceitfully, and a detestable act has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For Judah has defiled the sacredness of the LORD, which He cherished, by marrying the daughter of a foreign god.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will remove from the community of Jacob the one who does this—whether they are a leader or a follower—along with anyone who brings an offering to the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And yet you have done this again: you have covered the altar of the LORD with tears, weeping, and cries of distress, so that He no longer pays attention to your offering or accepts it with favor from your hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet you ask, "Why is this happening?" It is because the LORD has been a witness between you and the wife of your youth, the one you have betrayed, though she was your companion and the wife of your covenant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Did not God create one [man and woman]? Yet He had the fullness of the Spirit. And why did He make them one? It was to produce a godly offspring. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and do not act unfaithfully toward the wife of your youth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD, the God of Israel, declares that He detests divorce, for it covers one's wrongdoing like a garment, says the LORD of hosts. Therefore, guard your hearts and do not act deceitfully.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have exhausted the LORD with your words. Yet you ask, "How have we exhausted him?" By saying, "Everyone who does evil is good in the LORD's eyes, and he delights in them," or by asking, "Where is the God of justice?"</span></p>






</body></html>