<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7vrhf.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6dce2cd9-5b17-9d5e-189c-d577db25c267" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua was now advanced in age, and the LORD said to him, "You have grown old and are well along in years, yet there is still a great deal of land that remains to be taken possession of."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the territory that still remains to be conquered: all the regions of the Philistines and the entire area of Geshur.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the Shihor River, which lies east of Egypt, all the way to the northern border of Ekron, a region considered part of Canaan, there are five territories ruled by the Philistine lords: the Gazathites, the Ashdothites, the Ashkelonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites. Additionally, the Avites inhabit this area.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the southern region, all the territory of the Canaanites, including Mearah, which lies near the Sidonians, extending as far as Aphek, up to the boundary of the Amorites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The territory of the Gebalites and all of Lebanon, toward the east, from Baal-gad at the foot of Mount Hermon to the entrance of Hamath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will drive out all the inhabitants of the hill country, from Lebanon to Misrephoth-maim, including all the Sidonians, from before the Israelites. However, you must allocate this land by lot as an inheritance for the Israelites, just as I have commanded you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, allocate this land as an inheritance for the nine tribes and the half-tribe of Manasseh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Reubenites and the Gadites have received their inheritance, which Moses granted them, on the eastern side of the Jordan, just as Moses, the servant of the LORD, had allotted to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Aroer, which lies on the edge of the Arnon River, and from the city situated in the middle of the river, and all the plain of Medeba as far as Dibon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the cities ruled by Sihon, the king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, extending as far as the territory of the Ammonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Gilead, along with the territory of the Geshurites and Maachathites, and all of Mount Hermon, and all of Bashan as far as Salcah;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire kingdom of Og in Bashan, who ruled in Ashtaroth and Edrei, was part of the remnant of the Rephaim (giants). Moses attacked and drove them out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Israelites did not drive out the Geshurites or the Maachathites. As a result, the Geshurites and the Maachathites continue to live among the Israelites to this very day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the tribe of Levi alone, Moses did not assign any portion of land as an inheritance. Instead, the offerings made by fire to the LORD, the God of Israel, are their inheritance, just as the LORD had promised them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses assigned to the tribe of Reuben's descendants their allotted portion of land, distributed according to their clans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their territory extended from Aroer, which lies on the edge of the Arnon River, including the city situated in the middle of the river, and encompassed the entire plain near Medeba.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Heshbon, along with all its surrounding towns in the plain; Dibon, Bamoth-baal, and Beth-baal-meon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Jahazah, Kedemoth, and Mephaath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Kirjathaim, Sibmah, and Zareth-shahar, located on the hill within the valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Beth-peor, and the slopes of Pisgah, and Beth-jeshimoth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the cities of the plain and the entire kingdom of Sihon, the king of the Amorites, who ruled in Heshbon, were conquered by Moses. He defeated Sihon along with the leaders of Midian—Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, and Reba—who were Sihon’s vassal rulers and lived in the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balaam, the son of Beor, the diviner, was also killed by the sword by the Israelites, among those they struck down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boundary of the territory belonging to the descendants of Reuben was the Jordan River and its surrounding region. This was the inheritance allotted to the Reubenites according to their clans, including their cities and the surrounding villages.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses allocated the inheritance to the tribe of Gad, distributing it to the descendants of Gad according to their clans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their territory extended to Jazer, including all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the Ammonites, reaching as far as Aroer, which lies near Rabbah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from Heshbon to Ramath-mizpeh and Betonim, and from Mahanaim to the territory of Debir;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the valley were Beth-aram, Beth-nimrah, Succoth, and Zaphon—the remaining territory of Sihon, king of Heshbon. The Jordan River and its border extended as far as the shore of the Sea of Chinnereth on the eastern side of the Jordan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the portion allotted to the descendants of Gad, according to their clans, including the cities and their surrounding villages.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses allocated an inheritance to the half-tribe of Manasseh, and this became the territory of the half-tribe of the descendants of Manasseh, divided according to their clans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their territory extended from Mahanaim and included all of Bashan, the entire kingdom of Og, king of Bashan, as well as all the settlements of Jair in Bashan—sixty cities in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Half of the region of Gilead, along with the cities of Ashtaroth and Edrei, which were part of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were allotted to the descendants of Machir, the son of Manasseh. This portion was given to half of the families descended from Machir, according to their clans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the territories that Moses allotted as an inheritance in the plains of Moab, on the eastern side of the Jordan River, near Jericho, toward the east.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Moses did not assign any portion of land as an inheritance to the tribe of Levi. The LORD, the God of Israel, was their inheritance, just as He had promised them.</span></p>






</body></html>