<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 32</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s7yco9.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:75794598-32c5-8779-56fe-befd94c39e51" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 32</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, O heavens, and I will speak; O earth, hear the words I proclaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My teaching will fall like gentle rain, my words will descend like dew, like soft showers on new grass and refreshing rain on tender plants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will proclaim the name of the LORD; declare the greatness of our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He is the unshakable foundation; His work is flawless, for all His ways are just. He is a God of truth, without any wrongdoing—upright and righteous is He.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have become corrupt; their blemish is not like that of His children. They are a twisted and deceitful generation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do you repay the LORD in this way, you foolish and senseless people? Is He not your Father, who created you? Has He not made you and established you as His own?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Reflect on the days of ancient times, ponder the years of past generations. Inquire of your father, and he will explain to you; ask your elders, and they will recount it to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Most High assigned the nations their inheritance, when He divided the descendants of Adam, He established the boundaries of the peoples according to the number of the children of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the Lord’s chosen possession is His people; Jacob is the share of His inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He discovered him in a barren desert, in a desolate and wild wasteland. He guided him, taught him, and protected him as carefully as one guards the pupil of their eye.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Like an eagle that rouses its nest, hovers over its young, spreads out its wings to catch them, and carries them aloft on its pinions:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the LORD alone guided him, and no foreign god was with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He enabled him to travel across the heights of the land, so that he could enjoy the abundant harvest of the fields. He provided for him honey from the rock and oil from the hardest stone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You were provided with the finest produce: rich cream from cows, fresh milk from sheep, the choicest fat from lambs and rams bred in Bashan, and the best goats. You were nourished with the finest wheat, and you drank the pure, rich juice of the grape.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jeshurun grew prosperous and became arrogant; you became fat, you grew thick, you were covered with abundance. Then he abandoned the God who made him and showed contempt for the Rock, his salvation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They stirred Him to jealousy by worshiping foreign gods; with detestable practices they provoked Him to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They offered sacrifices to demons, not to God—to gods they did not know, to new gods that had recently appeared, gods that your ancestors never revered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have forgotten the Rock who fathered you; you have neglected the God who created you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the LORD saw this, He was filled with disgust because of the actions of His sons and daughters, who had provoked Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said, "I will turn My face away from them; I will observe what their end will be. For they are a deeply corrupt generation, children who show no faithfulness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have stirred me to jealousy by worshiping what is not God; they have provoked me to anger with their worthless idols. Therefore, I will stir them to jealousy by showing favor to those who are not a recognized people; I will provoke them to anger by blessing a nation they consider foolish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For a fire has been ignited by my wrath, and it will burn down to the depths of the grave. It will devour the earth and all its produce, and it will set ablaze the very foundations of the mountains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring calamities upon them; I will exhaust my arrows against them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will be consumed by hunger and ravaged by scorching heat, along with bitter devastation. I will also unleash the fangs of wild beasts upon them, as well as the venom of serpents that crawl in the dust.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Outside, the sword will bring destruction, and inside, terror will reign. Both the young man and the young woman will perish, as well as the nursing infant and the elderly man with gray hair.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I declared, "I will scatter them to distant places and cause their memory to fade from among humanity."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If it were not for my concern about the anger of the enemy, fearing that their foes might act arrogantly and claim, "Our own power has triumphed, and the LORD had no part in this."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they are a people lacking wisdom, and there is no discernment among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If only they were wise and truly understood this, if only they would reflect on their ultimate destiny!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How could one person pursue a thousand, or two put ten thousand to flight, unless their Rock had handed them over, and the LORD had given them up?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For their strength and protection are not like our God, as even our enemies themselves would acknowledge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their vine comes from the vine of Sodom, and from the fields of Gomorrah. Their grapes are poisonous, and their clusters are bitter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their wine is like the deadly poison of serpents, and the cruel, lethal venom of vipers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is this not carefully preserved with me, securely stored among my treasures?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Vengeance and retribution belong to me; their downfall will come at the appointed time. For the day of their disaster is near, and the events destined for them are swiftly approaching.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD will judge His people and show compassion to His servants when He sees that their strength has failed, and there is no one left, whether confined or free.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they will say, "Where are their gods, the rock in which they placed their trust?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who consumed the fat of your sacrifices and drank the wine of your offerings? Let them rise up now and assist you; let them be your shield and protection.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Behold now, I alone am He, and there is no god besides Me. I bring death, and I give life; I wound, and I heal. No one can rescue anyone from My power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I raise my hand to the heavens and declare, "As surely as I live forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If I sharpen my gleaming sword and my hand grasps justice, I will bring vengeance upon my enemies and repay those who hate me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will drench my arrows with blood, and my sword will consume flesh—blood from the slain and the captives, as I begin to execute vengeance upon the enemy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Celebrate, all you nations, along with his people, for he will take vengeance for the blood of his servants. He will bring retribution upon his enemies and show compassion to his land and to his people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the hearing of the people, he and Hoshea, the son of Nun.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses finished delivering all these words to the entire nation of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "Focus your hearts and minds on all the words I am declaring to you today. You must teach them to your children, instructing them to carefully follow and obey every word of this law."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This matter is not trivial for you; indeed, it is your very life. By holding fast to it, you will extend your days in the land you are about to cross the Jordan to possess.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the LORD spoke to Moses on that very day, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go up into the mountains of Abarim, to Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, across from Jericho. From there, look out over the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the Israelites as their possession.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will die on the mountain where you are going, and you will be gathered to your ancestors, just as your brother Aaron died on Mount Hor and was gathered to his people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you acted unfaithfully against me among the Israelites at the waters of Meribah-Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin, and because you did not honor me as holy in the presence of the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will see the land spread out before you, but you will not enter it—the land that I am giving to the people of Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>