<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8352d.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:50562116-b1f5-29f5-fbfb-05fbdfe83e80" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses after the death of Aaron’s two sons, who died when they presented an offering before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Tell your brother Aaron that he must not enter the holy place behind the veil, in front of the mercy seat that is on the ark, at any time he chooses. If he does, he will die, because I will appear in the cloud above the mercy seat."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron shall enter the sacred area in this manner: he must bring a young bull as a sin offering and a ram as a burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He must wear the sacred linen tunic, with linen undergarments next to his body, and he shall fasten them with a linen sash. He shall also wear the linen turban; these are the holy garments. Therefore, he must wash his body with water and then put them on.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall take from the assembly of the Israelites two male goats as a sin offering and one ram as a burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron shall present his bull as a sin offering, which is for himself, and he shall make atonement for himself and for his household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall take the two goats and bring them before the LORD at the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron shall cast lots for the two goats: one lot will designate the goat for the LORD, and the other lot will designate the goat as the scapegoat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron shall take the goat designated by the LORD’s decision and present it as a sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the goat on which the lot falls to be the scapegoat shall be brought alive before the LORD, to perform the act of atonement over it, and then it shall be sent away as the scapegoat into the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron shall bring the bull for the sin offering, which is for himself, and he shall make atonement for himself and for his household. Then he shall slaughter the bull for the sin offering that is for himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall take a censer filled with burning coals from the altar that stands before the LORD, along with both hands full of finely ground fragrant incense, and bring them inside the veil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall place the incense on the fire before the LORD, so that the smoke of the incense may rise and cover the mercy seat that is above the covenant tablets. This is to ensure that he does not die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take some of the bull’s blood and, using his finger, sprinkle it on the front of the atonement cover, facing east. Then, in front of the atonement cover, he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he shall slaughter the goat designated as the sin offering for the people, take its blood inside the veil, and perform the same ritual with it as he did with the blood of the bull. He shall sprinkle the blood on the atonement cover and in front of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall perform the act of atonement for the sacred sanctuary because of the impurities of the Israelites and because of their rebellious acts in all their sins. In the same way, he shall carry out this atonement for the tent of meeting, which remains among them in the midst of their defilement.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the high priest enters the holy place to perform the act of atonement, no one is to be present in the tent of meeting until he comes out. He must first make atonement for himself, then for his household, and finally for the entire assembly of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall then go out to the altar that stands before the LORD and perform the act of atonement for it. He shall take some of the blood from the bull and some of the blood from the goat and apply it to the horns of the altar on all sides.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall take some of the blood and sprinkle it with his finger seven times on the altar. In this way, he will purify it and consecrate it, removing the defilement caused by the sins of the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he has finished purifying the Most Holy Place, the tent of meeting, and the altar, he shall bring forward the live goat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron shall place both his hands on the head of the live goat and confess over it all the iniquities of the Israelites, along with all their transgressions and sins. He shall symbolically transfer them onto the head of the goat. Then, he shall send the goat away into the wilderness under the care of a designated man.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The goat will carry upon itself all their sins to a desolate land, and the goat will be released into the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron shall enter the tent of meeting and remove the linen garments he wore when he entered the holy place, and he shall leave them there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He must wash his body with water in the sacred area, then put on his priestly garments. Afterward, he shall come out and present his burnt offering, as well as the burnt offering of the people. In doing so, he will make atonement for himself and for the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fat of the sin offering must be burned on the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person who releases the goat designated as the scapegoat must wash his clothes and bathe his body in water. Afterward, he may return to the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bull for the sin offering and the goat for the sin offering, whose blood was brought into the holy place to make atonement, must be taken outside the camp. Their hides, their flesh, and their waste are to be burned in the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person who burns them must wash their clothes and bathe their body in water. Afterward, they may return to the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This shall be a permanent regulation for you: On the tenth day of the seventh month, you must humble yourselves and refrain from all work, whether you are native-born or a foreigner residing among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For on that day, the priest will perform the act of atonement for you, to purify you, so that you may be cleansed from all your sins in the presence of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This day shall be a day of complete rest for you, and you must humble yourselves. This is a permanent decree for all generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest who is anointed and ordained to serve in the priestly office in place of his father shall perform the atonement. He shall put on the sacred linen garments, the holy vestments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will perform the act of atonement for the holy sanctuary, and he will also make atonement for the tent of meeting and for the altar. Furthermore, he will carry out the atonement for the priests and for all the members of the community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This shall be a permanent regulation for you: to make atonement for the people of Israel for all their sins once every year. And he carried out what the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>






</body></html>