<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s83wdw.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b2705bde-58df-d39e-3597-d13e78124fd9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Elisha spoke to the woman whose son he had brought back to life, saying, "Get up, take your household, and go live wherever you can find a place to stay, because the LORD has decreed a famine, and it will come upon the land for seven years."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman got up and followed the instructions of the man of God. She left with her household and lived in the land of the Philistines for seven years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the end of the seven years, the woman returned from the land of the Philistines. She went to appeal to the king for the return of her house and her land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king spoke with Gehazi, the servant of the man of God, and said, "Please tell me about all the remarkable deeds that Elisha has done."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As he was recounting to the king how he had brought a dead person back to life, suddenly the woman whose son had been restored to life came and appealed to the king concerning her house and her land. Gehazi said, "My lord the king, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha brought back to life."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the king questioned the woman, she explained the situation to him. The king then assigned a specific official to her case, instructing him, "Return everything that belongs to her, including all the produce from her fields from the time she left the land up to the present day."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha arrived in Damascus, and at that time, Ben-hadad, the king of Syria, was ill. Someone informed the king, saying, "The man of God has come here."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king instructed Hazael, "Take a gift with you, go and meet the man of God, and seek the LORD's guidance through him. Ask him, 'Will I recover from this illness?'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Hazael went to meet him, bringing with him a gift consisting of the finest goods from Damascus, carried by forty camels. He came and stood before Elisha and said, "Your son Ben-hadad, king of Syria, has sent me to you, asking, 'Will I recover from this illness?'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha said to him, "Go and tell him, 'You will certainly recover.' However, the LORD has revealed to me that he will indeed die."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he fixed his gaze intently until the man became embarrassed. Then the man of God began to weep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hazael asked, "Why is my lord weeping?" Elisha replied, "Because I know the harm you will bring upon the people of Israel: you will set their fortified cities on fire, kill their young men with the sword, dash their little ones to pieces, and rip open their pregnant women."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hazael replied, "But how could I, your servant, a mere insignificant person, do such a great thing?" Elisha answered, "The LORD has revealed to me that you will become king over Syria."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Naaman left Elisha and returned to his master. The king asked him, "What did Elisha say to you?" Naaman replied, "He told me that you would certainly recover."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, he took a thick cloth, soaked it in water, and laid it over his face, causing him to die. Then Hazael took his place and became king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fifth year of Joram, the son of Ahab king of Israel, while Jehoshaphat was still king of Judah, Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, began his reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he ruled for eight years in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He followed the ways of the kings of Israel, just as the house of Ahab had done, because he had married Ahab’s daughter. He committed evil in the eyes of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the LORD chose not to destroy Judah for the sake of David, His servant, just as He had promised to give him and his descendants a lasting dynasty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During his reign, Edom rebelled against Judah's control and established their own king to rule over them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joram marched to Zair, accompanied by all his chariots. During the night, he launched an attack against the Edomites who had surrounded him and their chariot commanders. The Edomite forces were defeated, and the survivors fled back to their tents.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Edom rebelled against Judah's authority, and they remain independent to this day. At the same time, Libnah also rose up in rebellion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Joram and everything he accomplished—are they not recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joram died and was buried with his ancestors in the City of David. His son Ahaziah succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twelfth year of Joram, the son of Ahab, king of Israel, Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram, king of Judah, began to rule.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he ruled for one year in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Athaliah, the daughter of Omri, king of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He followed the ways of the house of Ahab and committed evil in the sight of the LORD, just as the house of Ahab had done, for he was the son-in-law of Ahab's family.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He accompanied Joram, the son of Ahab, to wage war against Hazael, the king of Syria, at Ramoth-gilead. During the battle, the Syrians inflicted wounds on Joram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Joram returned to Jezreel to recover from the wounds inflicted on him by the Arameans at Ramah during his battle against Hazael, the king of Aram. Meanwhile, Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram king of Judah, went down to Jezreel to visit Joram, the son of Ahab, because he was ill.</span></p>






</body></html>