<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Hebrews Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s88b2h.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3ad9da05-c1b6-b0b5-c400-bc37d587e0a3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Hebrews Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Faith is the confident assurance of what we hope for, the firm conviction of realities we cannot see.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For through faith, the people of old received God's approval.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, we comprehend that the universe was created by the command of God, so that what is visible came into existence from what is not visible.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, Abel presented to God a superior sacrifice compared to Cain. Through this act, he received confirmation that he was righteous, as God bore witness to his offerings. And though he died, his faith still speaks to us today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, Enoch was taken up so that he did not experience death; he could not be found, because God had taken him away. For before he was taken, he had received the testimony that he had pleased God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But without faith, it is impossible to please God, for whoever approaches Him must believe that He exists and that He rewards those who earnestly seek Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, Noah, having been divinely warned about events that were not yet visible, acted with reverent obedience and built an ark to save his household. Through this act, he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called to leave for a place that he would later receive as his inheritance. He set out without knowing where he was going.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, he lived as a foreigner in the land of promise, as though it were not his own, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, who were fellow heirs of the same promise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he was seeking a city with enduring foundations, whose architect and creator is God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, Sarah herself received the ability to conceive, even though she was past the age of childbearing, and she gave birth to a child. This happened because she considered the one who had made the promise to be trustworthy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, from one man—and he as good as dead—came descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky and as countless as the sand along the seashore.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of these individuals died while still holding firmly to their faith, even though they had not yet received the fulfillment of the promises. Instead, they saw those promises from a distance, welcomed them with confidence, and acknowledged that they were foreigners and temporary residents on the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For those who speak in this way make it clear that they are seeking a homeland.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, if they had kept thinking about the land they had left behind, they would have had the chance to go back.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But now they seek a better homeland—a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith Abraham, when he was tested, presented Isaac as an offering. He who had received the promises was willing to sacrifice his one and only son,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning him, it was declared, "Through Isaac your descendants will be named."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Believing that God had the power to raise him from the dead, and in a sense, he did receive him back, as if from death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, Isaac pronounced blessings upon Jacob and Esau regarding their future destinies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, Jacob, as he was nearing death, blessed each of Joseph’s sons and bowed in worship, leaning on the top of his staff.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, Joseph, as he was nearing death, spoke about the future exodus of the Israelites from Egypt and gave instructions regarding his bones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, when Moses was born, his parents hid him for three months because they saw that he was a special child, and they did not fear the king’s decree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, when Moses had grown up, he refused to be known as the son of Pharaoh’s daughter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He chose to endure hardship alongside God's people rather than to indulge in the fleeting pleasures of sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Considering the disgrace associated with Christ to be of greater value than all the wealth of Egypt, because he was focused on the future reward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, he left Egypt, unafraid of the king’s anger, for he persevered as though he could see the One who is invisible.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, he observed the Passover and the application of blood, so that the destroyer of the firstborn would not harm them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, they crossed the Red Sea as if it were dry ground. When the Egyptians attempted to do the same, they were drowned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, the walls of Jericho collapsed after the Israelites had marched around them for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By faith, the prostitute Rahab did not perish with those who refused to believe, for she welcomed the spies in peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What more can I say? Time would not allow me to fully recount the stories of Gideon, Barak, Samson, and Jephthah, nor of David, Samuel, and the prophets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through their faith, they conquered kingdoms, established justice, received what was promised, and silenced the roar of lions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They extinguished the fury of flames, escaped the threat of the sword, found strength in their weakness, became mighty in battle, and caused foreign armies to flee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Women had their dead restored to life through resurrection. Others endured torture, refusing to accept release, so that they might attain a more glorious resurrection.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Others endured harsh ridicule and brutal beatings, and beyond that, they faced chains and imprisonment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were stoned to death, they were cut in two, they were tested, and they were killed with the sword. They wandered about dressed in sheepskins and goatskins, destitute, oppressed, and mistreated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The world was not worthy of them. They wandered through deserts and mountains, living in holes in the ground and caves of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All these individuals, commended for their faith, did not receive the fulfillment of what was promised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God has prepared something superior for us, so that they would not reach completeness apart from us.</span></p>






</body></html>