<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nahum Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8acea.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:78676477-4229-12d7-3671-bf88ddcdd42d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nahum Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who shatters and destroys has advanced against you. Guard the fortress, watch the roads, strengthen yourself, and prepare your defenses with all your might.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD has stripped away the pride of Jacob, just as He has stripped away the pride of Israel. Those who plundered them have left them desolate, and they have ruined their fruitful vines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The shields of his warriors are dyed red, and his valiant soldiers are clad in scarlet. On the day of his readiness, the chariots gleam like flaming torches, and the fir trees tremble violently.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The chariots will storm through the streets, crashing into one another on the wide roads. They will appear like blazing torches, darting swiftly like flashes of lightning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will recount his mighty warriors, but they will falter as they march; they will rush to the city wall, yet the defenses will already be in place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The gates of the rivers will be thrown open, and the royal palace will collapse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the queen shall be taken captive; she will be led away, and her attendants will accompany her, mourning like doves, beating their breasts in sorrow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Nineveh has long been like a reservoir of water; yet now they will flee away. "Stop! Stop!" they will cry, but no one will turn back.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Seize the plunder of silver, take the plunder of gold, for there is no limit to the abundance and splendor from all the exquisite possessions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land is desolate, barren, and ruined. Hearts are filled with terror, knees tremble and knock together, and every waist is gripped with anguish. The faces of all grow pale with fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Where is the den of the lions, the place where the young lions feed, where the lion, even the mighty lion, once roamed, and the lion cub, with no one to frighten them?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The lion tears apart enough prey for its cubs, kills for its lionesses, and fills its lairs with the spoils of the hunt, its dens with the plunder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for I am against you, declares the LORD of hosts. I will set your chariots ablaze, and they will be consumed in smoke. The sword will destroy your fierce warriors, and I will put an end to your plundering in the land. The voices of your messengers will no longer be heard.</span></p>






</body></html>