<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 36</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8avii.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:1d7173df-edd8-55aa-b226-4ff80c4bc743" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 36</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, son of man, proclaim a message to the mountains of Israel and declare: "Mountains of Israel, listen to the word of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: Because the enemy has boasted against you, saying, "Aha! Even the ancient high places are now ours to possess,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, prophesy and declare, "This is what the Lord GOD says: Because they have devastated you and surrounded you on every side, intending to make you a possession for the remaining nations, and because you have become the subject of gossip and a byword of disgrace among the people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, mountains of Israel, listen to the word of the Lord GOD. This is what the Lord GOD says to the mountains, the hills, the rivers, the valleys, the desolate ruins, and the abandoned cities that have become plunder and a source of mockery for the surrounding nations:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: In the heat of my burning anger, I have spoken against the rest of the nations and against all of Edom, who have claimed my land as their own possession with wholehearted delight and malicious intent, seeking to plunder it and drive out its people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, prophesy concerning the land of Israel and say to the mountains, the hills, the rivers, and the valleys, "This is what the Lord GOD says: Listen, I have spoken in my burning zeal and fierce anger because you have endured the disgrace of the nations."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: I have solemnly sworn that the nations surrounding you will themselves endure their own disgrace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you, O mountains of Israel, will sprout your branches and bear your fruit for my people Israel, for they are soon to return.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for I am on your side, and I will turn my attention to you. You will be cultivated and planted anew.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will increase the number of people upon you—the entire house of Israel, all of it. The cities will be filled with inhabitants, and the ruined places will be rebuilt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause both people and animals to multiply and flourish among you; they will increase in number and be fruitful. I will restore you to your former prosperity and make your condition even better than it was at the beginning. Then you will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, I will bring people to dwell upon you—my people Israel. They will take possession of you, and you will become their inheritance. Never again will you take away their children or cause them to lose their people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: Because people say of you, "You are a land that consumes its inhabitants and causes your nations to lose their children,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you will no longer consume people, nor will you cause your nations to suffer loss anymore, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will no longer allow the disgrace of the nations to be heard against you, nor will you endure the scorn of the peoples any longer. You will no longer cause your own people to stumble, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the message of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Son of man, when the people of Israel lived in their own land, they polluted it with their conduct and their actions. Their behavior was like the impurity of a woman during her menstrual period, and it was evident before me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I unleashed my wrath upon them because of the blood they had shed on the land and because of the idols with which they had defiled it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I dispersed them among the nations, and they were scattered across the lands. I judged them according to their conduct and their actions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they came to the nations where they went, they dishonored my holy name, for it was said of them, "These are the people of the LORD, yet they have been driven out of his land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I acted out of concern for my holy name, which the house of Israel had dishonored among the nations wherever they went.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, speak to the house of Israel and say to them, "This is what the Lord GOD declares: I am not doing this for your sake, O house of Israel, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have dishonored among the nations where you have gone."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will make my great name holy, which has been dishonored among the nations—the name you have disgraced in their midst. The nations will then know that I am the LORD, declares the Sovereign LORD, when I demonstrate my holiness through you in their sight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will remove you from among the nations, gather you from all the lands, and bring you back to your own land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, I will pour clean water over you, and you will be made clean. I will cleanse you from all your impurities and from all your idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will give you a new heart and place a new spirit within you. I will remove your heart of stone from your body and give you a heart of flesh instead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will place my Spirit within you, enabling you to live according to my decrees. You will carefully observe my laws and faithfully carry them out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will live in the land that I gave to your ancestors, and you will be my people, and I will be your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also deliver you from all your impurities, and I will summon the grain and cause it to increase abundantly. I will not bring famine upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause the fruit of the trees and the produce of the fields to increase abundantly, so that you will no longer suffer the disgrace of famine among the nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you will recall your own wicked ways and your actions that were not good, and you will feel disgust toward yourselves in your own eyes because of your sins and your detestable deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord GOD declares: "I am not doing this for your sake, as you should know. Be filled with shame and disgrace because of your own actions, O house of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: On the day I cleanse you from all your sins, I will also enable you to live in your cities, and the ruined places will be rebuilt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The barren and abandoned land will be cultivated and worked, even though it had previously lain desolate and empty, visible to all who passed by.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they will declare, "This land that was once barren has now become like the garden of Eden. The cities that were ruined, desolate, and abandoned are now fortified and filled with people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the nations that remain around you will know that I, the LORD, rebuild what has been ruined and restore what was desolate. I, the LORD, have declared it, and I will accomplish it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: "For this reason, I will still allow the house of Israel to seek me and ask for my intervention, so that I may act on their behalf. I will multiply their people, making them as numerous as a flock."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as the sacred flock, like the flocks of Jerusalem during its appointed festivals, so shall the desolate cities be filled with multitudes of people. And they will come to understand that I am the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>