<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 27</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8e2kt.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2fd9b429-88c4-5981-bd4a-17dca7fe5ce2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 27</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to construct an altar out of acacia wood, measuring five cubits in length and five cubits in width—the altar shall be square—and its height shall be three cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make horns for it on its four corners; the horns shall be of one piece with it. Then you shall cover it with bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall also make pans to collect the ashes, along with shovels, basins, meat forks, and firepans. All the utensils for it you shall make out of bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall construct a grating of bronze mesh for it, and on the mesh you shall attach four bronze rings at its four corners.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002278"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall place it beneath the ledge of the altar, so that the netting reaches halfway up the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002279"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make poles for the altar, poles made of acacia wood, and cover them with bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002280"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The poles are to be inserted into the rings, and they shall remain on the two sides of the altar to carry it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall construct it with planks, making it hollow. As it was shown to you on the mountain, so they are to make it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002282"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to construct the courtyard of the tabernacle. On the south side, facing southward, there shall be curtains for the courtyard made of finely twisted linen, one hundred cubits in length for that side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The twenty pillars and their twenty bases shall be made of bronze; the hooks for the pillars and their connecting bands shall be made of silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the north side as well, there shall be curtains one hundred cubits in length, supported by twenty pillars with twenty bronze bases. The hooks of the pillars and their connecting bands shall be made of silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the western side of the courtyard, there shall be curtains measuring fifty cubits in length, supported by ten pillars with their corresponding ten bases.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The width of the courtyard on the eastern side, facing east, shall be fifty cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The curtains on one side of the gate shall measure fifteen cubits in length, supported by three pillars and set in three bases.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the opposite side, there shall be curtains measuring fifteen cubits in length, supported by three pillars and set in three bases.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the entrance to the courtyard, there shall be a curtain twenty cubits long, made of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and finely woven linen, skillfully embroidered. It shall have four posts and four bases.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the pillars surrounding the courtyard shall be bound with silver bands; their hooks shall be made of silver, and their bases of bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The courtyard shall be one hundred cubits in length, fifty cubits in width on all sides, and five cubits in height, made of finely woven linen. Its bases shall be of bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the utensils used in the service of the tabernacle, along with all its tent pegs and all the pegs for the surrounding courtyard, must be made of bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall instruct the Israelites to bring you pure, pressed olive oil for the light, so that the lamp may burn continually.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the tent of meeting, outside the curtain that is in front of the covenant testimony, Aaron and his sons are to tend it from evening until morning in the presence of the LORD. This shall be a permanent statute for their descendants on behalf of the people of Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>