<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 44</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8e6as.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:12748d1f-44be-710e-e61f-64a922c2233e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 44</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he led me back to the outer gate of the sanctuary that faces toward the east, and it was closed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD said to me, "This gate shall remain closed; it shall not be opened, and no one shall enter through it. For the LORD, the God of Israel, has entered through it; therefore, it shall remain shut."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This portion is designated for the prince; the prince himself shall sit there to eat a meal in the presence of the LORD. He shall enter through the porch of the gate and depart by the same way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he led me to the entrance of the north gate of the temple. As I looked, I saw the glory of the LORD filling the house of the LORD, and I fell facedown in reverence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "Son of man, pay close attention, observe carefully with your eyes, and listen intently with your ears to everything I tell you concerning all the regulations of the house of the LORD and all its laws. Take careful note of the entrance to the house, as well as every exit from the sanctuary."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you shall say to the rebellious ones, even to the house of Israel, "This is what the Lord GOD says: 'House of Israel, have you not had enough of all your detestable practices?'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have brought foreigners into my sanctuary—those who are uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh—to be present in my sanctuary, defiling it, even my holy house. This you have done while offering my bread, the fat, and the blood, yet they have violated my covenant through all your detestable practices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have failed to uphold the responsibility of caring for my sacred things. Instead, you have appointed others to oversee my duties in my sanctuary for your own benefit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: No foreigner—whether uncircumcised in heart or uncircumcised in flesh—shall enter my sanctuary, not even any foreigner living among the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the Levites who have strayed far from me, when Israel turned away from me to follow their idols, will bear the consequences of their guilt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will serve in my sanctuary, overseeing the gates of the temple and performing duties within it. They will slaughter the burnt offerings and sacrifices for the people, and they will stand before them to serve and assist them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they served the people before their idols and led the house of Israel into sin, I have raised my hand against them, declares the Lord GOD, and they will bear the consequences of their guilt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall not approach me to serve as priests, nor come near to any of my sacred things, especially those in the most holy place. Instead, they will bear the disgrace of their shame and the detestable acts they have committed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will appoint them to oversee the responsibilities of the temple, managing all its duties and everything that needs to be accomplished within it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the priests, the Levites, the descendants of Zadok, who faithfully carried out their duties in my sanctuary when the people of Israel turned away from me—they alone shall approach me to serve me. They shall stand before me to present the fat and the blood as offerings, declares the Sovereign LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will come into my holy place and approach my table to serve me, and they will faithfully carry out the duties I have assigned to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen that when they enter through the gates of the inner courtyard, they shall wear garments made of linen. No wool shall be worn by them while they serve at the gates of the inner courtyard or within it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall wear linen turbans on their heads and linen undergarments around their waists; they must not wear anything that causes them to sweat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they go out into the outer courtyard, the one that is open to the people, they must remove the garments in which they have been serving and leave them in the sacred rooms. Then they are to put on different clothing, so that they do not consecrate the people by means of their sacred garments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They must not shave their heads completely, nor let their hair grow long and unkempt; instead, they are to trim their hair neatly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No priest shall drink wine when he enters the inner court.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They must not marry a widow or a divorced woman, but only a virgin from the descendants of the house of Israel, or a widow who was previously married to a priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will instruct my people in distinguishing what is sacred from what is common, and they will guide them in recognizing what is unclean and what is clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In disputes, they shall serve as judges and make decisions according to my ordinances. They are to uphold my laws and statutes in all my appointed gatherings, and they shall honor my Sabbaths as sacred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They must not come near a dead person to make themselves ceremonially unclean, except for a father, mother, son, daughter, brother, or unmarried sister. For these close relatives, they are permitted to become unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he has been purified, they shall count seven days for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the day when he enters the sanctuary, into the inner court, to serve in the sanctuary, he must present his sin offering, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land shall be given to them as their inheritance: I myself am their inheritance. You shall not grant them any property in Israel, for I am their possession.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall partake of the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering; and every dedicated thing in Israel shall belong to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The first portion of all the firstfruits from every kind of produce, and every offering from all your offerings, shall belong to the priest. You are also to give the priest the first portion of your dough, so that he may bring a blessing upon your household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests must not eat anything that has died naturally or has been torn apart by wild animals, whether it is a bird or an animal.</span></p>






</body></html>