<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 53</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8ed3u.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7c9d65f7-ee69-892a-8f39-c96191760ec8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 53</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who has believed what we have proclaimed? And to whom has the mighty power of the LORD been made known?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he will grow up before God like a young, delicate plant, like a root sprouting from parched ground. He has no striking appearance or majesty to draw our attention; when we look at him, there is nothing in his outward form that would make us desire him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was despised and rejected by people, a man of deep sorrows, familiar with suffering. We turned our faces away from him; he was despised, and we held him in no regard. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, he has taken upon himself our pains and carried our sorrows; yet we regarded him as one struck down, afflicted by God, and brought low. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he was pierced because of our rebellion, crushed because of our sins; the punishment that brought us peace was laid upon him, and by his wounds we are made whole. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of us, like sheep, have wandered away; each of us has turned to follow our own path. Yet the LORD has placed upon him the guilt and wrongdoing of us all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was mistreated and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth. He was led like a lamb to the slaughter, and like a sheep that remains silent before its shearers, he did not utter a word.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was taken away from confinement and from a legal trial, and who can fully recount his story? For he was removed from the land of the living, cut off from life. He was struck down because of the rebellion of my people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was buried among the wicked and laid to rest with the wealthy in his death, though he had committed no violence, nor was any deceit found in his words. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet the LORD was pleased to crush him and cause him to suffer. When you make his life a guilt offering, he will see his offspring and prolong his days. The LORD’s purpose will prosper through him. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will witness the results of his soul's suffering and be fully satisfied. Through his understanding, my righteous servant will bring justification to many, for he will bear their sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will assign him a share among the great, and he will divide the spoils with the mighty, because he poured out his life to the point of death and was counted among the rebellious. He bore the sins of many and interceded on behalf of those who transgressed.</span></p>






</body></html>