<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8fe0f.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:1e11eb46-23fc-7c41-7eab-fa72757ac0b4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Solomon commenced the construction of the house of the LORD in Jerusalem on Mount Moriah, where the LORD had appeared to his father David. This was the site that David had designated, the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He commenced construction on the second day of the second month, in the fourth year of his reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the details concerning Solomon's instructions for the construction of the house of God. The length of the building, according to the original measurement, was sixty cubits, and its width was twenty cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The porch at the front of the temple was as wide as the temple itself, measuring twenty cubits in length. Its height was one hundred and twenty cubits, and Solomon overlaid the interior with pure gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the larger main room, he paneled the walls with fir wood, which he then covered with pure gold. He decorated it with carved palm trees and interwoven chains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He adorned the temple with precious stones to enhance its beauty, and the gold used was of the finest quality from Parvaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also covered the house—its beams, doorframes, walls, and doors—with gold, and he carved cherubim into the walls.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed the Most Holy Place, whose length matched the width of the main house, measuring twenty cubits long and twenty cubits wide. He overlaid its interior with pure gold, using six hundred talents of gold for the task.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold. He also covered the upper rooms with gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the Most Holy Place, he crafted two cherubim, skillfully fashioned as sculpted figures, and covered them with gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wings of the cherubim measured twenty cubits in total. Each cherub had one wing that was five cubits long, extending to the wall of the house, and the other wing was also five cubits long, touching the wing of the other cherub.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One wing of the second cherub measured five cubits, extending to the wall of the house, while its other wing also measured five cubits, touching the wing of the first cherub.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wings of these cherubim extended outward, spanning twenty cubits in total. They stood upright on their feet, and their faces were turned toward the inner sanctuary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted the veil using blue, purple, and crimson yarns, along with fine linen, and skillfully embroidered cherubim on it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also constructed two pillars in front of the temple, each thirty-five cubits high, and the capital on top of each pillar was five cubits tall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted chains, like those in the inner sanctuary, and placed them on the tops of the pillars. He also made a hundred pomegranates and attached them to the chains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He set up the pillars in front of the temple, one on the right side and the other on the left. He named the pillar on the right Jachin and the pillar on the left Boaz.</span></p>






</body></html>