<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8grtw.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4d5262b7-a99a-bfc9-dea6-1e5b2041f7e4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Joshua, "Do not be afraid or discouraged. Take all your fighting men with you, and go up to Ai. Look, I have delivered into your hands the king of Ai, his people, his city, and his land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall deal with Ai and its king as you did with Jericho and its king. However, you may take the plunder and the livestock as spoils for yourselves. Set up an ambush against the city from behind it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua got up, along with all the warriors, to march against Ai. He selected thirty thousand of the strongest and most courageous men and sent them out under cover of darkness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He instructed them, saying, "Listen carefully: you are to set an ambush near the city, positioning yourselves behind it. Do not go too far from the city, but stay alert and fully prepared."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, along with all the people who are with me, will advance toward the city. When they come out to confront us, as they did before, we will retreat and flee from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">(For they will pursue us) until we have lured them away from the city. They will think, "They are running from us, just as they did before." So we will pretend to flee before them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall rise up from your hiding place and take control of the city, for the LORD your God will give it into your hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you capture the city, you are to set it on fire. Do this in accordance with the command of the LORD. See, I have given you this instruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joshua sent them out, and they went to set up an ambush, positioning themselves between Bethel and Ai, to the west of Ai. Meanwhile, Joshua spent that night among the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua got up early in the morning, gathered the people, and went up—he and the elders of Israel—ahead of the people to Ai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people, including the soldiers who were with him, advanced and approached the city. They positioned themselves on the north side of Ai, with a valley lying between them and the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua selected approximately five thousand men and positioned them in ambush between Bethel and Ai, on the western side of the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After positioning the people—the entire army to the north of the city and the ambush forces to the west—Joshua went down into the valley that night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the king of Ai saw the Israelites, he and all his people quickly rose early in the morning and went out to confront Israel for battle at a designated place near the plain. However, he was unaware that an ambush had been set against him behind the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua and all the Israelites pretended to be defeated before them and fled in the direction of the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people of Ai were summoned to pursue them, and they chased after Joshua and his forces, being lured away from the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Not a single person remained in Ai or Bethel who did not go out to pursue Israel. They left their cities undefended and chased after the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Joshua, "Hold out the spear in your hand toward Ai, for I will deliver it into your hands." So Joshua held out the spear in his hand toward the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ambush swiftly emerged from their hiding place and rushed forward as soon as he raised his hand. They entered the city, captured it, and quickly set it on fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the men of Ai looked back, they saw the smoke of their city rising into the sky. They were completely overwhelmed, unable to flee in any direction. Meanwhile, the Israelites who had pretended to flee toward the wilderness now turned back and began to pursue their attackers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Joshua and all the Israelites saw that the ambush had successfully captured the city and that smoke was rising from it, they turned back and attacked the men of Ai, striking them down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Meanwhile, the other group came out of the city to confront them, so the enemy forces were caught in the middle of Israel’s army, with some on one side and some on the other. The Israelites struck them down, leaving no survivors or escapees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They captured the king of Ai alive and brought him to Joshua.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Israel had finished killing all the inhabitants of Ai in the open fields and in the wilderness where they had pursued them, and after all of them had fallen by the sword until they were completely destroyed, all the Israelites returned to Ai and struck it down with the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so it happened that on that day, the total number of those who fell—both men and women—was twelve thousand, including all the people of Ai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua did not withdraw his hand, with which he held the spear stretched out, until he had completely destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites took only the livestock and the plunder from that city as their own, in accordance with the command of the LORD that He had given to Joshua.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua set fire to Ai and reduced it to a permanent ruin, leaving it in a state of desolation that remains to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Ai was hanged on a tree until evening. As soon as the sun set, Joshua gave the command to take his body down from the tree. They threw it at the entrance of the city gate and piled a large heap of stones over it, which remains there to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joshua constructed an altar to the LORD, the God of Israel, on Mount Ebal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Moses, the servant of the LORD, had commanded the Israelites, according to what is written in the Book of the Law of Moses, they built an altar of uncut stones, on which no iron tool had been used. On this altar, they presented burnt offerings to the LORD and also sacrificed fellowship offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And there, on the stones, he inscribed a copy of the law of Moses, which he wrote while the children of Israel looked on.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of Israel, including their elders, officials, and judges, stood on both sides of the ark, facing the Levitical priests who carried the ark of the LORD’s covenant. This assembly included both the foreigner living among them and the native-born Israelite. Half of the people stood facing Mount Gerizim, and the other half faced Mount Ebal, just as Moses, the servant of the LORD, had previously commanded, so that they might pronounce blessings over the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, he read aloud all the words of the law—both the blessings and the curses—exactly as they are written in the book of the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua read aloud every single command that Moses had given, presenting it to the entire assembly of Israel. This included the women, the children, and the foreigners who lived among them, ensuring that no instruction was left unspoken or unheard.</span></p>






</body></html>