<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Luke Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8h1dq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:346e94f3-7a15-e145-9aec-2efbe045bd4c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Luke Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, he traveled through every town and village, proclaiming and sharing the good news of the kingdom of God. The twelve disciples were with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And there were some women who had been cured of evil spirits and various illnesses, including Mary, known as Magdalene, from whom seven demons had been driven out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Joanna, the wife of Chuza, who was Herod’s household manager, and Susanna, along with many others, supported Him from their own resources.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When a large crowd had gathered and people from every town were coming to him, he began to teach them using a parable:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A farmer went out to plant his seeds. As he scattered them, some fell along the path, where they were trampled underfoot, and the birds of the sky came and ate them up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of the seed fell on rocky ground, and as soon as it sprouted, it withered and died because it had no moisture to sustain it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of the seed fell among thorns, and as the thorns grew up alongside it, they overwhelmed and choked the seed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025254"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Other seeds fell on fertile soil, grew up, and produced a crop a hundred times greater. After saying this, he called out, "Whoever has the ability to understand, let them pay attention."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025255"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His disciples asked Him, saying, "What does this parable mean?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025256"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "To you it has been granted to understand the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to others, these truths are shared in parables, so that even though they see, they may not perceive, and though they hear, they may not comprehend."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025257"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the meaning of the parable: The seed represents the word of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025258"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people represented by the path are those who hear the message, but then the devil comes and takes the word away from their hearts, so that they may not believe and be saved.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025259"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people represented by the rocky ground are those who, when they hear the message, receive it with joy. However, they have no deep root, so they believe for a time, but when trials or temptations come, they quickly fall away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025260"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The seeds that fell among thorns represent those who hear the message, but as they go on their way, they are overwhelmed by the worries, wealth, and pleasures of this life. As a result, they do not mature or bear fruit to its fullest potential.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025261"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But those on the good soil are the ones who, with a sincere and noble heart, hear the word, hold firmly to it, and by persevering, produce a fruitful harvest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025262"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one, after lighting a lamp, covers it with a container or hides it under a bed. Instead, they place it on a lampstand so that those who enter may see the light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025263"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For there is nothing concealed that will not be revealed, nor anything hidden that will not be made known and brought to light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025264"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful, then, how you listen. For whoever has understanding and embraces the truth, more will be given to them. But whoever lacks understanding, even what they think they have will be taken away from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025265"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then his mother and brothers came to him, but they could not reach him because of the crowd.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025266"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some people came and told Him, "Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside, wanting to see You."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025267"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied to them, "My mother and my brothers are those who listen to God’s word and put it into practice."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One day, Jesus got into a boat with his disciples and said to them, “Let us cross over to the other side of the lake.” So they set out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they sailed, Jesus fell asleep. Suddenly, a fierce windstorm swept down upon the lake, and the boat began to fill with water, putting them in great danger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They approached Him, woke Him, and said, "Teacher, Teacher, we are about to perish!" Then He got up, rebuked the wind and the violent waves, and they immediately stopped, and there was complete calm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to them, "Where is your faith?" Filled with fear and amazement, they said to one another, "Who is this man? He commands even the winds and the water, and they obey Him!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They came to the region of the Gadarenes, which lies opposite Galilee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jesus stepped ashore, a man from the city who was possessed by demons came to meet him. For a long time, this man had been under the control of evil spirits. He wore no clothes and did not live in a house but stayed among the tombs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he saw Jesus, he shouted, fell down before him, and cried out in a loud voice, “What do you want with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you, do not torment me!”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For Jesus had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. Many times it had seized him, and he had been bound with chains and shackles to restrain him, but he would break the bonds and be driven by the demon into desolate places.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Jesus questioned him, asking, "What is your name?" He replied, "Legion," because many demons had entered him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they pleaded with Him, asking that He would not order them to depart into the abyss.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025278"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a large herd of pigs feeding on the hillside nearby. The demons begged Jesus to allow them to enter into the pigs, and he permitted them to do so.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025279"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the demons came out of the man and entered into the pigs. The entire herd rushed violently down the steep slope into the lake and drowned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025280"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When those who were tending the animals saw what had happened, they ran away and reported it both in the town and throughout the surrounding countryside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they went out to see what had happened, and they came to Jesus. They found the man from whom the demons had gone out sitting at Jesus’ feet, fully clothed and in his right mind. And they were filled with fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025282"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who had witnessed the event explained to them how the man who had been tormented by demons had been delivered and made well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the people from the surrounding region of the Gadarenes pleaded with him to leave their area, for they were overwhelmed with great fear. So he got into the boat and returned to the place from which he had come.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man from whom the demons had been driven out begged Jesus to let him stay with him. But Jesus sent him away, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go back to your home and tell about all the great things God has done for you. So he left and proclaimed throughout the entire city all the amazing things Jesus had done for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jesus returned, the people welcomed him with joy, for they had all been eagerly awaiting his arrival.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Suddenly, a man named Jairus arrived. He was a leader of the synagogue. He fell at Jesus’ feet and pleaded with him, asking him to come to his house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He had an only daughter, about twelve years old, and she was near death. As he made his way through the crowd, the people pressed tightly around him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A woman who had been suffering from a discharge of blood for twelve years—and had spent all her resources on physicians, yet could not be healed by any of them—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She approached him from behind and touched the edge of his cloak. Instantly, her bleeding stopped.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Jesus asked, “Who touched me?” When everyone denied it, Peter and those with him said, “Teacher, the crowd is pressing in on you and pushing against you, and yet you ask, ‘Who touched me?’”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Jesus said, "Someone has touched me, for I sense that power has gone out from me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the woman realized that she could not remain unnoticed, she came forward trembling, fell down before Him, and in the presence of all the people, she explained why she had touched Him and how she had been instantly healed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to her, "Daughter, take heart; your faith has healed you. Go in peace."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While he was still speaking, someone came from the house of the synagogue leader and said to him, "Your daughter has died. Do not trouble the Teacher any further."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jesus heard this, he responded, saying, "Do not be afraid; only believe, and she will be healed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he entered the house, he did not allow anyone to go in except Peter, James, John, and the girl’s father and mother.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Everyone was weeping and mourning for her, but He said, "Do not weep; she is not dead, but asleep."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They ridiculed him, fully convinced that she was dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he sent everyone out of the room, took her by the hand, and called out, "Young girl, get up!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her spirit returned, and she immediately got up. Then he instructed them to give her something to eat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her parents were utterly amazed, but he instructed them not to tell anyone about what had happened.</span></p>






</body></html>