<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 38</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8ldwk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:56adf09f-3c74-7d46-a780-4975092c5a42" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 38</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, direct your attention toward Gog, the land of Magog, the supreme ruler of Meshech and Tubal, and proclaim a prophetic message against him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And declare this message: Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, the supreme ruler of Meshech and Tubal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will turn you around, place hooks in your jaws, and lead you out with all your army—horses and horsemen, all fully equipped in splendid armor, a vast assembly armed with shields and bucklers, each wielding a sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Persia, Cush, and Put are with them, all armed with shields and helmets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gomer and all its troops; the house of Togarmah from the far north, along with all its forces; and many peoples allied with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Get ready and prepare yourself, you and all the group gathered around you, and stand as their protector.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After a long time, you will be called to account. In the final years, you will enter a land that has been restored from the ravages of war, a land gathered from many nations, and you will come against the mountains of Israel, which had long lain desolate. But this land will have been reclaimed from the nations, and its people will live in safety, all of them secure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will rise up and advance like a storm; you will be like a cloud spreading over the land—you, all your forces, and the many nations with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: "It will also happen that at that very moment, thoughts will arise in your mind, and you will devise a wicked plan."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you shall declare, "I will advance against a land of open villages; I will attack those who live in peace and security, all of them dwelling without protective walls, having neither bars nor gates to secure them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To seize plunder and take captives, to turn your hand against the desolate places that are now inhabited, and against the people who have been gathered from the nations—those who have acquired livestock and possessions and now dwell securely in the heart of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sheba, Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, along with all their powerful allies, will say to you, “Have you come to plunder? Have you assembled your forces to seize loot? Are you here to carry off silver and gold, to take livestock and goods, to amass great spoils?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, mortal, prophesy and say to Gog: This is what the Lord GOD declares: On that day when my people Israel are living securely, will you not take notice?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will come from your homeland in the far north, you and many nations with you, all mounted on horses—a vast assembly, a powerful and formidable army.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will advance against my people Israel like a cloud covering the land. This will happen in the final days, and I will bring you against my land so that the nations may know me when I demonstrate my holiness through you, O Gog, before their eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: Are you the one I spoke of long ago through my servants, the prophets of Israel, who prophesied for many years in those days that I would bring you against them?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen at that very time, when Gog comes against the land of Israel, declares the Lord GOD, that my wrath will rise up within me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For in my passionate zeal and the burning intensity of my anger, I have declared this: On that day, there will surely be a tremendous upheaval throughout the land of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that the fish in the sea, the birds of the sky, the wild animals of the field, every creature that moves along the ground, and all the people living on the face of the earth will tremble at my presence. The mountains will crumble, the cliffs will collapse, and every wall will fall to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will summon the sword to come against him across all my mountains, declares the Lord GOD. Every man’s sword will be turned against his own brother.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will confront him with plague and bloodshed; I will pour down upon him, upon his troops, and upon the many nations allied with him, a torrential downpour, along with massive hailstones, fire, and burning sulfur.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, I will demonstrate my greatness and set myself apart as holy. I will make myself known to many nations, and they will recognize that I am the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>