<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8mk47.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:de69a339-d240-6150-41db-c99023446ca3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It happened that when the king was settled in his palace, and the LORD had granted him peace on every side, free from all his enemies,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to Nathan the prophet, "Look, I am living in a house made of cedar, but the ark of God remains in a tent."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nathan replied to the king, "Go ahead and do everything that is in your heart, for the LORD is with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That very night, the word of the LORD came to Nathan, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and tell my servant David, "This is what the LORD says: Are you the one to build a house for me to live in?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the time I brought the Israelites out of Egypt until this very day, I have not lived in a permanent house. Instead, I have moved about in a tent and a tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In all the places where I have journeyed with all the people of Israel, did I ever speak a word to any of the leaders of Israel, whom I appointed to shepherd My people Israel, saying, "Why have you not built Me a house of cedar?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, this is what you must say to my servant David: "This is what the LORD of hosts declares: I took you from the pasture, from tending the sheep, and appointed you to be ruler over my people, over Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have destroyed all your enemies before you. I have given you a renowned reputation, like that of the greatest and most honored individuals on earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, I will establish a place for my people Israel and settle them there, so that they may live in their own land and no longer be uprooted. Never again will the children of wickedness oppress them as they did in the past.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the time I appointed judges to lead my people Israel, I have given you rest from all your enemies. Moreover, the LORD declares to you that He will establish a lasting dynasty for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When your days are complete and you rest with your ancestors, I will raise up your offspring after you, who will come from your own body, and I will establish his kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will be a father to him, and he will be my son. If he does wrong, I will discipline him with the correction used by humans, and with the punishments inflicted by people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But my steadfast love will never be taken away from him, as I removed it from Saul, whom I set aside before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your family and your kingdom will endure forever before you; your throne will be established for all time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In accordance with all these words and the entirety of this vision, Nathan spoke to David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King David went in and sat in the presence of the LORD, and he said, "Who am I, O Lord GOD, and what is my family, that you have brought me this far?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And yet, O Lord GOD, this seems insignificant in your sight; but you have also spoken concerning your servant's house for a distant future. Is this the way you deal with humanity, O Lord GOD?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What more can David say to you? For you, Lord GOD, know your servant completely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the sake of your promise and in accordance with your will, you have accomplished all these great deeds, making them known to your servant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you are great, O LORD God, for there is no one like you, nor is there any god besides you, as we have heard with our own ears.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What nation on earth is like your people, like Israel, whom God chose to redeem as His own, to establish His reputation, and to perform great and awe-inspiring deeds for your land, in the presence of your people whom you redeemed for yourself from Egypt, freeing them from the nations and their gods?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you have established your people Israel as your own people forever, and you, LORD, have become their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, O LORD God, may the promise you have spoken concerning your servant and his family stand firm forever. Fulfill what you have declared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May your name be exalted forever, as people declare, "The LORD of hosts is the God over Israel." And may the house of your servant David be firmly established before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you, O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, have made known to your servant, saying, "I will build you a house." Therefore, your servant has found the courage in his heart to offer this prayer to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, O Lord GOD, You are indeed God, and Your words are trustworthy. You have promised this goodness to Your servant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, may it now please you to bless the household of your servant, so that it may endure forever in your presence. For you, O Lord GOD, have declared it, and with your blessing, may the household of your servant be blessed forever.</span></p>






</body></html>