<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8or0g.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:83a86a06-5c17-9453-7429-24300daa689f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Address the entire assembly of the Israelites and say to them: You must be holy, for I, the LORD your God, am holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each of you must respect your mother and father, and observe my Sabbaths. I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not turn to idols, nor create for yourselves gods made of metal. I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you present a peace offering to the LORD, you must offer it willingly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The offering must be eaten on the day it is presented and on the following day. If any portion remains until the third day, it must be burned in the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any of it is eaten on the third day, it is detestable and will not be accepted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, anyone who eats it will bear the guilt of their wrongdoing, for they have desecrated what is holy to the LORD. That person will be cut off from the community of their people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you harvest the crops of your land, you must not completely harvest the edges of your field, nor should you gather up the leftover gleanings of your harvest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not harvest every last grape from your vineyard, nor gather up the fallen grapes. Instead, leave them for the poor and the foreigner. I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not steal, nor act deceitfully, nor lie to one another.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not swear falsely by my name, nor dishonor the name of your God. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not cheat or rob your neighbor. Do not keep the wages of a hired worker with you overnight; pay them by the morning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not insult or curse someone who is deaf, nor place an obstacle in the path of someone who is blind. Instead, you are to revere your God, for I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not act unjustly when making judgments. Do not show favoritism toward the poor, nor give undue respect to the powerful. Instead, judge your neighbor with fairness and integrity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not spread harmful gossip among your people, nor should you endanger the life of your neighbor by standing idly by when their life is at risk. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not harbor hatred toward your brother in your heart. You must certainly confront your neighbor directly, so that you do not allow sin to remain upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not seek revenge or hold a grudge against your fellow people. Instead, you are to love your neighbor as yourself. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must observe my decrees. Do not allow your livestock to breed with a different kind; do not plant your field with mixed seeds; and do not wear clothing made of both linen and wool together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man has sexual relations with a woman who is a slave, pledged to be married to another man but not yet redeemed or granted her freedom, they shall both be punished. However, they shall not be put to death, because she was not a free woman. The woman shall be disciplined, but their lives shall be spared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The individual must bring his guilt offering to the LORD, presenting it at the entrance of the tent of meeting—a ram as the offering for his guilt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall offer atonement for him before the LORD with the ram of the guilt offering, for the sin he has committed. Through this act, the sin he has committed will be forgiven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you enter the land and plant all kinds of fruit trees for food, you must regard their fruit as forbidden. For three years, it will be considered unclean to you and must not be eaten.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, in the fourth year, all its fruit shall be set apart as holy, an offering of praise to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fifth year, you may eat the fruit of the tree, so that it may produce its yield for you. I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not eat anything with its blood still in it. You shall not practice sorcery or engage in divination.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not cut the edges of your hair in a circular fashion, nor shall you damage the edges of your beard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not make any cuts or gashes in your body for the dead, nor tattoo any marks on yourselves: I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not allow your daughter to engage in prostitution, thereby making her promiscuous, lest the land fall into widespread immorality and become filled with wickedness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must observe my Sabbaths and honor my sanctuary with reverence. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not turn to those who consult spirits or seek out sorcerers, for doing so will defile you. I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must stand in the presence of the elderly, show respect to the aged, and revere your God. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a foreigner resides with you in your land, you must not mistreat them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The foreigner who resides among you shall be treated as a native-born citizen, and you shall love them as you love yourself; for you yourselves were foreigners in the land of Egypt. I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not act unjustly in legal decisions, in measurements of length, in weights, or in quantities. Ensure fairness and integrity in all your dealings, maintaining honesty in how you measure and judge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must use honest scales, honest weights, an honest measure for dry goods, and an honest measure for liquids. I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must carefully follow all my decrees and all my regulations, and carry them out. I am the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>