<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 27</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8qywj.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:454362c5-6289-5d6a-0ff7-57f2a5e73977" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 27</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, the Israelites were organized according to their numbers, including the heads of families, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and their officers who served the king in various duties. These groups were assigned to divisions that rotated monthly throughout the year, with each division consisting of twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jashobeam, the son of Zabdiel, was in charge of the first division for the first month. Under his command were twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Perez came the leader of all the army commanders for the first month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the second month, Dodai the Ahohite was in charge, and Mikloth was the leader under his command. In his division, there were also twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The third commander of the army for the third month was Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, who was a leading priest. In his division, there were twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is Benaiah, who was a mighty warrior among the Thirty and even more distinguished than the Thirty. His son Ammizabad served under him in his division.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander for the fourth month was Asahel, the brother of Joab, and after him, his son Zebadiah took command. In his division, there were twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander for the fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite, and his division consisted of twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander for the sixth month was Ira, the son of Ikkesh, from Tekoa. He was in charge of a division of twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite, from the descendants of Ephraim. His division consisted of twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, from the clan of Zerah. In his division, there were twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander for the ninth month was Abiezer the Anetothite, from the tribe of Benjamin. In his division, there were twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite, from the clan of Zerah. In his division, there were twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander for the eleventh month was Benaiah the Pirathonite, from the tribe of Ephraim. He led a division of twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander for the twelfth month, assigned to the twelfth division, was Heldai the Netophathite, a descendant of Othniel. His division consisted of twenty-four thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, concerning the leadership of the tribes of Israel: Eliezer, the son of Zichri, was the chief officer over the Reubenites; and Shephatiah, the son of Maachah, was the chief officer over the Simeonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the Levites, Hashabiah son of Kemuel; and from the descendants of Aaron, Zadok.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Judah, Elihu, one of David's relatives; from the tribe of Issachar, Omri, the son of Michael.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Zebulun, there was Ishmaiah, the son of Obadiah; and from the tribe of Naphtali, there was Jerimoth, the son of Azriel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah; and from the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, there was Iddo, the son of Zechariah; and from the tribe of Benjamin, there was Jaasiel, the son of Abner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Dan, Azareel son of Jeroham. These were the leaders of the tribes of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, David did not count those who were twenty years old or younger, for the LORD had promised to make Israel as numerous as the stars in the sky.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab, the son of Zeruiah, started to take a census, but he did not complete it, for God’s anger was stirred against Israel because of it. As a result, the final count was never recorded in the official records of King David’s reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Azmaveth, the son of Adiel, was in charge of the king’s treasuries. Jehonathan, the son of Uzziah, oversaw the storehouses located in the fields, the cities, the villages, and the fortresses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ezri, the son of Chelub, was in charge of those who worked in the fields, overseeing the cultivation of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shimei the Ramathite was in charge of the vineyards, and Zabdi the Shiphmite was responsible for overseeing the produce of the vineyards that was stored in the wine cellars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Baal-hanan the Gederite was in charge of the olive trees and the sycamore trees in the lowland areas, while Joash was responsible for overseeing the storage of oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shitrai the Sharonite was in charge of the herds that grazed in Sharon, and Shaphat son of Adlai was responsible for the herds in the valleys.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Obil the Ishmaelite was in charge of the camels, and Jehdeiah the Meronothite was responsible for the donkeys.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jaziz the Hagerite was in charge of the flocks. All these men were the overseers of King David’s property.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan, David’s uncle, was a wise counselor and a scribe. Jehiel, the son of Hachmoni, was entrusted with the care of the king’s sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahithophel served as the king’s advisor, and Hushai the Archite was the king’s close friend.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Ahithophel came Jehoiada, the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar. Joab was the commander of the king’s army.</span></p>






</body></html>