<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8rqq8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:be931cea-f7b1-10c1-4239-d4a8ffd48396" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites once again committed evil in the eyes of the LORD after Ehud had died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD handed them over to Jabin, the king of Canaan, who ruled in Hazor. The commander of his army was Sisera, who lived in Harosheth of the Nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites cried out to the LORD because Jabin, the king of Canaan, had nine hundred iron chariots and had severely oppressed them for twenty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, served as a judge over Israel during that time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She lived beneath the palm tree of Deborah, located between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim. The Israelites would come to her there to seek her judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She sent a message and summoned Barak, the son of Abinoam, from Kedesh in Naphtali, and said to him, "Has not the LORD, the God of Israel, commanded you, saying, 'Go and assemble your forces at Mount Tabor, taking with you ten thousand men from the tribes of Naphtali and Zebulun'?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will draw Sisera, the commander of Jabin’s army, to you at the river Kishon, along with his chariots and his vast forces, and I will hand him over to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Barak said to her, "If you will go with me, then I will go; but if you will not go with me, then I will not go."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She replied, "I will certainly go with you. However, the path you are taking will not bring you personal glory, for the LORD will deliver Sisera into the hands of a woman." Then Deborah got up and went with Barak to Kedesh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Barak summoned the people of Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh, and ten thousand men followed him as he went up. Deborah also went up with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Heber the Kenite, who was descended from Hobab, the father-in-law of Moses, had separated himself from the rest of the Kenites and set up his tent near the oak tree of Zaanaim, close to Kedesh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They informed Sisera that Barak, the son of Abinoam, had gone up to Mount Tabor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sisera assembled all his forces, including nine hundred iron chariots, along with all the troops under his command, from Harosheth of the Nations to the Kishon River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Deborah said to Barak, "Get up, for today is the day the LORD has given Sisera into your hands. Has not the LORD gone ahead of you?" So Barak descended from Mount Tabor, followed by ten thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord threw Sisera, all his chariots, and his entire army into confusion before Barak, striking them down with the sword. As a result, Sisera abandoned his chariot and fled on foot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Barak pursued the chariots and the army as far as Harosheth of the Nations, and the entire force of Sisera fell by the sword; not a single man survived.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Sisera fled on foot to the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, because there was a peaceful relationship between Jabin, the king of Hazor, and the family of Heber the Kenite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jael went out to meet Sisera and said to him, "Come in, my lord, come in to me; do not be afraid." So he entered her tent, and she covered him with a blanket.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to her, "Please give me a little water to drink, for I am thirsty." She opened a container of milk, gave him some to drink, and then covered him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He then instructed her, "Stand at the entrance of the tent. If anyone comes and asks you, 'Is there a man here?' you are to answer, 'No.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jael, the wife of Heber, took a tent peg and a hammer in her hand. She approached him quietly while he was in a deep, exhausted sleep. She drove the peg into his temple, securing it firmly into the ground. And so, he died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Barak was pursuing Sisera, Jael went out to meet him and said, "Come, and I will show you the man you are looking for." When he entered her tent, he saw Sisera lying dead, with a tent peg driven through his temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, God brought Jabin, the king of Canaan, under the power of the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The power of the Israelites grew strong, and they gained the upper hand against Jabin, the king of Canaan, until they had completely defeated and overthrown Jabin, the king of Canaan.</span></p>






</body></html>