<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 30</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8s34f.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:086a2bc4-0c61-fb35-1bfb-3db1887ce06b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 30</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Woe to the rebellious children," declares the LORD, "who make plans, but not according to my will; who form alliances, but not by my Spirit, piling sin upon sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who set out to go down to Egypt without seeking my guidance, who rely on Pharaoh's strength for protection and place their trust in the shadow of Egypt!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the might of Pharaoh will become your disgrace, and your reliance on the protection of Egypt will bring you humiliation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For his officials were in Zoan, and his envoys reached Hanes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were all disgraced by a people who could not benefit them, provide any assistance, or bring any advantage—only shame and disgrace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is a message concerning the animals of the southern wilderness: Through a land of distress and hardship, a place where lions, both young and old, prowl, and where vipers and deadly flying serpents dwell, they will transport their wealth on the backs of donkeys and their treasures on the humps of camels. They will carry it to a nation that will bring them no benefit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The assistance of the Egyptians will prove futile and without effect. This is why I have declared concerning them, "Their so-called strength lies in doing nothing."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go now and write this down on a tablet, and record it in a book, so that it may serve as a lasting witness for future generations, enduring forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is a defiant people, deceitful children, children who refuse to listen to the instruction of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who say to the seers, 'Do not see,' and to the prophets, 'Do not prophesy truth to us; tell us pleasing things, prophesy illusions.'</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Step aside, move away from the path, and remove the Holy One of Israel from our presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Holy One of Israel says: Because you reject this message and rely on oppression and deceit, depending on them for your security,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this sin will be like a crack in a wall that is ready to collapse, bulging out in a high structure, and its destruction will come suddenly, in an instant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will shatter it like a potter’s vessel, smashed into pieces without mercy. In its destruction, not even a fragment will remain large enough to carry embers from the fire or to scoop water from a cistern.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the Lord GOD, the Holy One of Israel, says: "In repentance and rest you will be delivered; in stillness and trust will be your strength." But you were unwilling.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you said, “No, we will flee on horses”; therefore, you will indeed flee. And you declared, “We will ride on swift steeds”; therefore, your pursuers will also be swift.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When one person rebukes you, a thousand will flee; when five rebuke you, you will all flee, until you are left like a solitary signal pole on a mountaintop, like a lone banner on a hill.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD will wait patiently to show you grace, and he will rise up to demonstrate his compassion toward you. For the LORD is a God of justice; blessed are all who wait expectantly for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people will live securely in Zion, in Jerusalem. You will no longer weep, for He will show you great compassion when you cry out to Him. As soon as He hears your voice, He will answer you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if the Lord provides you with the bread of hardship and the water of distress, your teachers will no longer be hidden or pushed aside. Instead, your eyes will see your teachers clearly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your ears will hear a voice behind you, saying, "This is the way; walk in it," whether you turn to the right or to the left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will also defile the coverings of your carved idols made of silver and the adornments of your cast images of gold. You will throw them away like a filthy rag; you will say to them, "Be gone from here!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will send rain for your seed, which you will sow in the ground, and the earth will yield its produce—rich and abundant. On that day, your livestock will graze in spacious pastures.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The oxen and the young donkeys that plow the ground will eat pure fodder, which has been sifted and cleaned with the shovel and the winnowing fork.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On every lofty mountain and every elevated hill, there will be rivers and flowing streams of water on the day of the great destruction, when the towers collapse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the light of the moon will shine as brightly as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun will be intensified sevenfold, like the light of seven days combined. This will occur on the day when the LORD mends the brokenness of His people and heals the wound inflicted upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the name of the LORD is coming from a distant place, ablaze with His anger, and its weight is overwhelming. His lips are filled with fury, and His tongue is like a consuming fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His breath, like a raging flood, will rise up to the neck, to shake the nations with the sieve of worthlessness. A misleading bridle will be placed in the jaws of the people, leading them astray.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will have a song, like the one sung at night during a sacred festival, and a heart filled with joy, as when people go with flutes to ascend the mountain of the LORD, to the Mighty One of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will make His majestic voice heard and will reveal the descent of His mighty arm, accompanied by the fury of His wrath, the blaze of a consuming fire, and with whirlwind, storm, and hailstones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For by the command of the LORD, the Assyrian will be struck down, the one who struck others with a rod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In every place where the appointed rod of judgment, which the LORD will bring upon him, passes, there will be the sound of tambourines and harps. And in the tumultuous battles, He will fight against it with fierce shaking.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For Tophet has been established since ancient times; indeed, it has been prepared for the king. He has made it deep and wide; its pyre is fire and abundant wood. The breath of the LORD, like a torrent of burning sulfur, will set it ablaze.</span></p>






</body></html>