<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8wqo0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4b506997-b4ff-230e-1d4f-13056767331e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to the word that the LORD speaks to you, O house of Israel:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Do not adopt the ways of the nations, and do not be terrified by the signs in the sky, for the nations are terrified by them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The practices of the people are meaningless, for they cut down a tree from the forest, shaping it with an axe by the skill of a craftsman.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They adorn it with silver and gold; they secure it with nails and hammers so that it does not wobble or fall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They stand tall like a palm tree, but they cannot speak; they must be carried, for they cannot walk. Do not fear them, for they can do no harm, nor is it within their power to do any good.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because there is no one like you, O LORD; you are great, and your name is mighty in power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who would not fear You, O King of the nations? For this honor belongs to You alone. Indeed, among all the wise people of the nations and in all their kingdoms, there is no one like You.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But they are completely senseless and foolish; the wooden idol is nothing more than a teaching of emptiness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Silver beaten into plates is brought from Tarshish, and gold from Uphaz, crafted by skilled artisans and shaped by the hands of metalworkers. Their garments are blue and purple, all of them the work of highly skilled craftsmen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the LORD is the true God; He is the living God and the eternal King. When He expresses His anger, the earth quakes, and no nation can withstand His fury.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what you shall say to them: "The gods who did not create the heavens and the earth will perish from the earth and vanish from beneath these heavens."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He created the earth by His mighty power, established the world through His wisdom, and spread out the heavens with His understanding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When He speaks, the heavens are filled with an abundance of waters, and He causes the mists to rise from the farthest reaches of the earth. He creates lightning to accompany the rain and brings forth the wind from His storehouses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every person is ignorant and without understanding; every craftsman is put to shame by the idols he makes, for his molded images are nothing but lies, and there is no life or spirit in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are worthless, the product of deception; at the time of their judgment, they will be destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The portion belonging to Jacob is not like these idols, for he is the Creator of all things, and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance. The LORD of armies is his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pack up your belongings and prepare to leave the land, you who dwell in the fortified city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says: "Listen, I am about to hurl out the inhabitants of this land all at once, and I will bring such distress upon them that they will feel the full weight of it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible is my suffering! My injury is severe. Yet I said to myself, "This is indeed my affliction, and I must endure it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My dwelling place is ruined, and all its ropes are torn apart. My children have left me and are no more. There is no one left to raise my tent again or to set up its curtains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The shepherds have become senseless and have not sought the LORD; therefore, they will not succeed, and all their flocks will be scattered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen! The sound of a report has arrived, and a great uproar is coming from the northern lands, destined to turn the cities of Judah into ruins, making them a haunt of jackals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, I understand that a person's path is not within their own control; it is not for anyone who walks to determine their own steps.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, discipline me, but with justice; not in your anger, lest you reduce me to nothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Direct your wrath upon the nations that do not acknowledge you, and upon the peoples who do not call on your name. For they have utterly destroyed Jacob, devoured him, and laid waste to his dwelling place.</span></p>






</body></html>