<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 31</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8xdh7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:de3d7021-8446-f370-c9cc-34d0451ef8d4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 31</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for those who turn to Egypt for help, relying on their horses and trusting in their chariots because they are numerous, and in their horsemen because they are mighty! Yet they do not look to the Holy One of Israel, nor do they seek the LORD!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet He is also wise and will bring about calamity; He does not retract His words. He will rise up against the house of the wicked and against those who aid evildoers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018254"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, the Egyptians are merely human, not divine; their horses are made of flesh, not spirit. When the LORD stretches out His hand, both the one who offers help and the one who receives it will stumble and fall, and all of them will perish together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018255"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD has declared to me: Just as a lion or a young lion growls over its prey, even when a group of shepherds is summoned against it, it will not be frightened by their shouting or cower before their noise—so the LORD of hosts will come down to fight for Mount Zion and for its hill.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018256"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Like birds soaring in the sky, the LORD of hosts will shield Jerusalem; He will defend it and deliver it, and as He watches over it, He will preserve it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018257"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Turn back to the one from whom the people of Israel have profoundly turned away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018258"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For on that day, everyone will discard their idols of silver and their idols of gold, which your own hands have crafted for yourselves, leading you into sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018259"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the Assyrian will fall, but not by the sword of a mighty warrior; he will be consumed by a sword, though not wielded by an ordinary man. He will flee from the sword, and his young warriors will be overwhelmed and defeated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018260"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will flee to his stronghold in terror, and his leaders will be gripped with fear at the sight of the banner, declares the LORD, whose fire burns in Zion and whose furnace blazes in Jerusalem.</span></p>






</body></html>