<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s8xeqx.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7eab3120-3686-dee5-d973-42dc30b19649" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God granted to him, to disclose to his servants the events that must soon take place. He communicated this by sending his angel to convey it to his servant John.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the one who testified to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ—everything that he saw.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Blessed are those who read, and those who listen to the words of this prophecy and take to heart what is written in it, for the time of its fulfillment is near.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">John, to the seven churches in Asia: May grace and peace be yours from the One who is, who was, and who is to come, and from the seven Spirits who stand before His throne.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from Jesus Christ, who is the trustworthy witness, the first to rise from the dead, and the ruler over all the kings of the earth. To him who loved us and freed us from our sins by the sacrifice of his own blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has made us a kingdom and priests to serve God, his Father. To him be glory and power forever and ever. Amen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, including those who pierced him. All the peoples of the earth will mourn because of him. Truly, so it shall be. Amen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, says the Lord, who is, who was, and who is to come, the Almighty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, John, your brother and fellow participant in the suffering, the kingdom, and the patient endurance that come through Jesus Christ, was on the island called Patmos because of my proclamation of God’s word and my testimony about Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I was deeply immersed in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, and suddenly I heard behind me a powerful voice, like the sound of a trumpet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. Write down in a book what you see, and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I turned around to see who was speaking to me. When I turned, I saw seven golden lampstands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And among the seven lampstands stood one resembling the Son of Man, dressed in a robe that reached down to His feet, and with a golden sash wrapped around His chest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His head and hair were white like pure wool, as white as snow, and his eyes blazed like a fiery flame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His feet gleamed like polished bronze, glowing as if refined in a furnace, and his voice resonated like the roar of rushing waters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In his right hand, he held seven stars, and from his mouth came a sharp, double-edged sword. His face shone like the sun at its brightest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I saw him, I collapsed at his feet as though I were dead. But he placed his right hand on me and said, "Do not be afraid. I am the First and the Last."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am the one who lives, who was dead, and now look—I am alive forever and ever! Amen. I hold the keys of death and the grave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Write down what you have seen, what is happening now, and what will take place in the future.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The meaning of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand and the seven golden lampstands is this: The seven stars represent the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands you saw symbolize the seven churches themselves.</span></p>






</body></html>