<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s90cbt.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e0564aee-39f6-b2ae-a07d-7d05563ade8e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the prophecy concerning Babylon, which Isaiah, the son of Amoz, saw in a vision.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Raise a banner on the high mountain, lift up your voice to call them, wave your hand as a signal, so that they may enter through the gates of the nobles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have summoned my consecrated ones; I have called forth my mighty warriors to execute my wrath—those who take pride in my majesty and exult in my exalted power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sound of a great crowd echoes through the mountains, like the roar of a mighty nation. It is the chaotic uproar of kingdoms and peoples assembling together. The LORD of heavenly armies is gathering his forces for battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They come from a distant land, from the farthest reaches of the heavens—the LORD and the instruments of His wrath—to bring devastation upon the entire earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wail aloud, for the day of the LORD is near; it will come like devastation from the Almighty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, everyone will lose their strength, and every person's courage will fail.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will be filled with terror; anguish and distress will seize them. They will writhe in pain like a woman in labor. They will look at one another in astonishment, their faces flushed with fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the day of the LORD is coming—a day filled with wrath and burning anger—to devastate the land and utterly destroy its sinners.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The stars of the heavens and their constellations will no longer shine with their light; the sun will be darkened as it rises, and the moon will not give forth its light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring judgment upon the world for its evil, and upon the wicked for their wrongdoing. I will put an end to the arrogance of the proud and humble the haughtiness of the ruthless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will make a person more valuable than refined gold, even more esteemed than the purest gold from Ophir.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will cause the heavens to tremble, and the earth will be shaken from its foundation, in the wrath of the LORD of hosts, and in the day of His burning anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It will be like a hunted gazelle or like sheep with no one to gather them; each person will turn back to their own people, and each will flee to their own land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Everyone who is discovered will be pierced through, and all who are allied with them will fall by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their children will be brutally killed before their very eyes; their homes will be plundered, and their wives will be violated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, I will rouse the Medes to come against them—a people who care nothing for silver and have no desire for gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their bows will shatter the young men, and they will show no mercy to the unborn; their eyes will not spare even the children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Babylon, the pride of nations, the splendor and majesty of the Chaldeans, will be utterly destroyed, just as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This place will never again be inhabited, nor will anyone live there from one generation to the next. No Arab will set up a tent there, nor will shepherds bring their flocks to rest in that land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the desert creatures will lie down there, and their dwellings will be filled with mournful beings; owls will make their home there, and wild goats will leap about.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wild animals of the desert will howl in their abandoned dens, and jackals will cry out in their once-luxurious palaces. Her time of judgment is close at hand, and her days will not be extended.</span></p>






</body></html>