<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s91a8n.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:18852f63-7778-25fa-44c6-fda8437c282f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the LORD said to me, "Take a large scroll and write on it in clear, legible writing concerning Maher-shalal-hash-baz."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I appointed trustworthy witnesses to document the matter: Uriah the priest and Zechariah, the son of Jeberechiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I went to the prophetess, and she became pregnant and gave birth to a son. Then the LORD said to me, "Name him Maher-shalal-hash-baz."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before the child is old enough to call out "my father" or "my mother," the wealth of Damascus and the plunder of Samaria will be carried off by the king of Assyria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD also spoke to me again, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because this people rejects the gently flowing waters of Shiloah and instead takes delight in Rezin and the son of Remaliah,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, take notice: the Lord is bringing against them the mighty and abundant waters of the river—that is, the king of Assyria and all his splendor. He will rise up and overflow all his channels, surging over every boundary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will sweep through Judah like a flood, rising and overflowing until it reaches up to the neck. The outspread wings of his forces will cover the full breadth of your land, O Immanuel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Come together, all you nations, and you will be shattered; listen closely, all you distant lands. Prepare yourselves for battle, and you will be crushed; arm yourselves, and you will be utterly defeated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Come together and devise your plans, but they will come to nothing; declare your intentions, but they will not succeed, for God is with us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to me with a powerful and compelling force, instructing me not to follow the ways of this people, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not join in saying, "Let us form an alliance," with everyone this people calls for an alliance. Do not fear what they fear, nor be filled with dread as they are.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Set apart the Lord of hosts as holy; let Him be the one you revere and hold in awe. Let Him be the source of your fear and the object of your deepest respect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will be a place of refuge and safety, but also a stone that causes people to stumble and a rock that makes them fall. For both the houses of Israel, he will be a trap and a snare to the people of Jerusalem. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many among them will stumble, fall, and be shattered; they will be ensnared and captured.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Secure the testimony and safeguard the instruction among my followers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will wait for the LORD, who has hidden his presence from the house of Jacob, and I will earnestly seek him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, I and the children the LORD has given me are meant to be signs and wonders in Israel, appointed by the LORD of hosts, who dwells on Mount Zion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When people say to you, "Consult those who communicate with spirits and seek guidance from sorcerers who whisper and mutter," should not a people inquire of their God? Why turn to the dead on behalf of the living?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Turn to the law and the testimony; if they do not speak in accordance with this word, it is because they have no true understanding or enlightenment within them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will pass through the land, distressed and famished. When they are hungry, they will become enraged and curse their king and their God, turning their gaze upward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will gaze toward the earth, only to see distress and gloom, a shadow of despair. They will be thrust into deep darkness.</span></p>






</body></html>