<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s93qdk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:646d9828-9580-ab9c-cb64-68d03abf5e83" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, make Jerusalem aware of her detestable actions."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And proclaim this message: Thus says the Lord GOD to Jerusalem: Your origin and birth are rooted in the land of Canaan; your father was an Amorite, and your mother a Hittite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding your birth, on the day you were born, your umbilical cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water to cleanse you. You were not rubbed with salt, nor were you wrapped in swaddling cloths.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one showed you pity or compassion to care for you in any way. Instead, you were thrown out into the open field, despised and rejected, on the day you were born.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As I passed by and saw you lying in your own blood, defiled and helpless, I said to you while you were still in that state, "Live!" Yes, even as you lay in your blood, I commanded you, "Live!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have made you flourish like the plants of the field, and you have grown and become great. You have reached a state of beauty and adornment: your breasts have developed, and your hair has grown long, though you were once naked and exposed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As I passed by you and observed you, I saw that it was the time for love. So I spread the corner of my garment over you to cover your nakedness, and I made a solemn promise to you. I entered into a covenant with you, declares the Lord GOD, and you became mine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I bathed you with water; indeed, I completely washed away the blood from you, and I anointed you with oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I adorned you with embroidered garments, provided you with sandals made of fine leather, wrapped you in the finest linen, and covered you with luxurious silk.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I adorned you with beautiful jewelry, placing bracelets on your wrists and a necklace around your neck.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I adorned you with a precious jewel on your forehead, placed earrings in your ears, and set a beautiful crown upon your head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You were adorned with gold and silver, and your clothing was made of fine linen, silk, and embroidered fabric. You ate the finest flour, honey, and olive oil. You were exceedingly beautiful and flourished to the point of becoming a kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your fame spread among the nations because of your beauty, for it was flawless due to the splendor I had bestowed upon you, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you relied on your own beauty and acted promiscuously because of your fame, offering your sexual favors to every passerby; it became his.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You took your garments and adorned your high places with various colors, and there you engaged in idolatrous acts. Such things must not happen again, nor shall they ever occur.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have also taken the beautiful jewelry made from my gold and silver, which I had given to you, and fashioned them into male idols. Then you engaged in acts of unfaithfulness with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You took your embroidered garments and used them to cover the idols. You also set out my oil and my incense before them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The food I provided for you—the fine flour, oil, and honey with which I nourished you—you have instead offered it to them as a pleasing aroma. This is what you have done, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, you have taken your sons and daughters, whom you bore to me, and you have sacrificed them to be consumed by these idols. Is this a trivial matter in your acts of unfaithfulness?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have killed my children and offered them up, making them pass through the fire as sacrifices to idols?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In all your detestable practices and acts of unfaithfulness, you have not recalled the days of your youth, when you were naked and exposed, lying in your own blood, defiled and vulnerable.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And after all your wickedness—truly, woe to you, woe to you! declares the Lord GOD—this is what happened:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have also built for yourself a prominent shrine and have set up a high place in every public square.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have constructed your shrines at every street corner and made your beauty detestable. You have exposed yourself to all who pass by and have increased your acts of unfaithfulness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have also engaged in immoral acts with the Egyptians, your neighbors, who are known for their lustful ways, and you have increased your unfaithfulness, provoking me to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I have indeed extended my hand against you, reducing your daily provisions and handing you over to the will of those who despise you—the daughters of the Philistines, who are appalled by your immoral behavior.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have also engaged in unfaithfulness with the Assyrians, driven by your insatiable desires. Indeed, you pursued immoral alliances with them, yet even then, you were not satisfied.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have further increased your unfaithfulness in the land of Canaan, even reaching as far as Chaldea; yet even with this, you were not satisfied.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How feeble is your heart, declares the Lord GOD, that you do all these things, acting like a domineering and promiscuous woman!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You build your prominent shrines at the head of every road and set up your high places in every street. Yet you are not like a prostitute, for you scorn payment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But like an adulterous wife, who takes strangers in place of her husband!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You offer gifts to all who engage in prostitution, but you give your gifts to all your lovers and pay them, so that they may come to you from every direction for your acts of unfaithfulness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your behavior is unlike that of other women in your acts of promiscuity, for no one follows you to engage in such acts. Moreover, you offer payment, yet no payment is given to you in return. Therefore, you are the opposite—you act contrary to the norm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, O unfaithful one, listen to the word of the LORD:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: Because your impurity was openly displayed and your shame was exposed through your acts of unfaithfulness with your lovers and with all your detestable idols, and because of the blood of your children, which you offered to them—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will gather all your lovers, those with whom you have found pleasure, and all those you have loved, as well as all those you have hated. I will bring them together against you from every side and expose your nakedness to them, so that they may see all of your shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will judge you as women who commit adultery and shed blood are judged; I will bring upon you the consequences of bloodshed in my fierce anger and jealousy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also deliver you into their hands, and they will demolish your lofty shrines and tear down your high places. They will strip you of your garments, seize your beautiful ornaments, and leave you naked and exposed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A group will rise up against you, and they will stone you with rocks and pierce you with their swords.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will set your houses on fire and carry out judgments against you in the presence of many women. I will put an end to your acts of prostitution, and you will no longer offer payment for such deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will cause my wrath against you to cease, and my jealousy will turn away from you. I will be at peace and will no longer be angry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you have forgotten the days of your youth and have provoked me with all these actions, therefore, I will now bring the consequences of your ways upon your own head, declares the Lord GOD. You will no longer continue in this depravity, which surpasses all your other detestable deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, everyone who speaks in proverbs will say this about you: "Like mother, like daughter."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are your mother’s daughter, who despises her husband and her children; and you are the sister of your sisters, who also despised their husbands and their children. Your mother was a Hittite, and your father was an Amorite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your older sister is Samaria, along with her towns that lie to your north; and your younger sister, who lives to your south, is Sodom with her towns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet you did not follow their ways or commit their detestable practices. However, as if that were not enough, you became even more corrupt than they in all your conduct.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"As surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, your sister Sodom and her daughters have not done what you and your daughters have done."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, this was the sin of your sister Sodom: she and her daughters were filled with arrogance, had plenty of food, and lived in careless ease. Yet they did not lift a hand to help the poor and needy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They became arrogant and committed detestable acts in my presence; therefore, I removed them as I deemed fitting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samaria has not committed even half of your sins. Yet you have increased your detestable deeds more than they have, and by your actions, you have made your sisters appear righteous in comparison to all the abominations you have done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You, who have judged your sisters, must now bear your own disgrace for the sins you have committed, which are even more detestable than theirs. They are more righteous than you. Indeed, be ashamed and bear your disgrace, for you have made your sisters appear righteous in comparison.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I restore the fortunes of Sodom and her daughters, and the fortunes of Samaria and her daughters, then I will also restore the fortunes of your captives among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that you may carry your own disgrace and be humiliated by all that you have done, since you have become a source of comfort to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When your sisters, Sodom and her surrounding towns, are restored to their former condition, and Samaria and her surrounding towns are restored to their former condition, then you and your surrounding towns will also be restored to your former condition.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your sister Sodom was not even spoken of by you in the time of your arrogance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before your wickedness was exposed, as in the time when you were disgraced by the daughters of Syria and all those around her—the daughters of the Philistines, who scorn you on every side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">58 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have carried the weight of your immorality and detestable actions, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">59 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the Lord GOD says: I will treat you just as you have acted, for you have shown contempt for the oath by breaking the covenant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">60 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet I will recall the covenant I made with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish with you a covenant that will last forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">61 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you will recall your ways and feel ashamed when you receive your sisters, both the older and the younger. I will give them to you as daughters, but not through the covenant you made.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">62 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will establish my covenant with you, and you will come to understand that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">63 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is so that you may remember, feel ashamed, and never speak again because of your disgrace, when I have forgiven you for all that you have done, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>






</body></html>