<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s94m2g.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:054a0b32-5c71-893f-3e93-8cab254bc1ed" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the messenger of the church in Sardis, write: These are the words of the one who holds the sevenfold Spirit of God and the seven stars: I know your deeds—you have a reputation for being alive, but in truth, you are dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be alert, and strengthen what remains, which is on the verge of fading away, for I have found that your deeds are not complete in the sight of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, remember how you received and heard the message, hold firmly to it, and repent. If you do not stay alert, I will come upon you like a thief, and you will not know the hour when I will come to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have a few people in Sardis who have not soiled their clothing with impurity; they will walk with me in white robes, for they are deserving.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who overcomes will be dressed in white garments, and I will never erase their name from the book of life. I will acknowledge their name before my Father and before his angels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever has the ability to listen, let them pay attention to what the Spirit is saying to the churches.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Write this to the messenger of the church in Philadelphia: These are the words of the one who is holy and true, who holds the key of David. What he opens, no one can shut, and what he shuts, no one can open.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am aware of your deeds. Look, I have placed before you an open door that no one can close, because you have shown some strength, remained faithful to my teachings, and have not rejected my name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will deal with those who belong to the synagogue of Satan—those who claim to be Jews but are not, for they are lying. I will cause them to come and bow down at your feet, and they will acknowledge that I have loved you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you have remained steadfast in upholding my message of endurance, I will also protect you from the time of trial that is coming upon the entire world to test all who live on the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, I am coming soon. Hold firmly to what you have, so that no one may take away your reward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the one who overcomes, I will grant a permanent place in the sanctuary of my God, and they will never have to leave it. I will inscribe upon them the name of my God, the name of the city of my God—the new Jerusalem, which descends from heaven from my God—and I will also write upon them my new name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever has the ability to listen, let them pay attention to what the Spirit is saying to the churches.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Write this to the messenger of the church in Laodicea: These are the words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the origin of all that God has created.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am aware of your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were either cold or hot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you are neither hot nor cold, but lukewarm, I am about to vomit you out of my mouth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you claim, "I am wealthy, I have prospered, and I lack nothing," yet you fail to realize that you are wretched, pitiful, poor, blind, and naked.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I advise you to purchase from me gold refined by fire, so that you may become truly rich; and white garments, so that you may be clothed and your shameful nakedness not be exposed; and ointment for your eyes, so that you may see clearly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those whom I love, I correct and discipline. Therefore, be earnest and turn away from your wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, I am standing at the door and knocking. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to them, and we will share a meal together—I with them, and they with me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the one who conquers, I will give the right to sit with me on my throne, just as I also overcame and sat down with my Father on his throne.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever has the ability to listen, let them pay attention to what the Spirit is saying to the churches.</span></p>






</body></html>