<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Luke Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s954yf.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b9a0d029-d56d-e0cc-2aa6-5d21a5096ad7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Luke Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now it happened that as he entered the house of one of the leading Pharisees to share a meal on the Sabbath, they were closely observing him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And look, there was a man standing before him who was suffering from swelling due to fluid retention.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Jesus responded, speaking to the legal experts and Pharisees, saying, "Is it permitted to heal on the Sabbath day?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They remained silent. Then he took the man, healed him, and sent him on his way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he responded to them, saying, "Which one of you, if your donkey or ox falls into a pit on the Sabbath day, will not immediately pull it out?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they were unable to offer any reply to him regarding these matters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jesus told a parable to the guests who had been invited, after noticing how they were selecting the places of honor for themselves. He said to them,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you are invited by someone to a wedding celebration, do not take the seat of honor for yourself. Otherwise, a more distinguished guest than you may arrive, and the host might come and say to you, 'Give your place to this person.' Then, in shame, you would have to move to a lower seat. Instead, when you are invited, go and sit in the least prominent place, so that when the host comes, he may say to you, 'Friend, move up to a better position.' Then you will be honored in the presence of all the guests. For everyone who exalts themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The host who invited both you and him will come and say to you, 'Give this man your seat.' Then, humiliated, you will have to take the lowest place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when you are invited, go and take the least prominent seat, so that when the one who invited you arrives, he may say to you, ‘Friend, move up to a better place.’ Then you will be honored in the presence of all the guests dining with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For anyone who elevates themselves will be brought low, and whoever humbles themselves will be lifted up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he also said to the one who had invited him, "When you host a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends, your brothers, your relatives, or your wealthy neighbors. Otherwise, they might invite you in return, and you would be repaid for your kindness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when you host a banquet, invite the poor, the disabled, the crippled, and the blind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be blessed because they cannot repay you; for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As one of those reclining at the table with Him heard these words, he said to Him, "How fortunate is the one who will share in the feast of God’s kingdom."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to him, "A certain man prepared a grand banquet and invited many guests."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the time of the evening meal, he sent his servant to tell those who had been invited, “Come, for everything is now prepared.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they all, in unison, began to make excuses. The first one said to him, "I have purchased a field, and I must go and inspect it. Please excuse me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Another person said, "I have purchased five pairs of oxen, and I am going to test them. Please excuse me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And another said, "I have just married a wife, and for that reason, I cannot come."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the servant went and reported these things to his master. Then the owner of the house, filled with anger, said to his servant, “Go out at once into the streets and alleys of the town and bring in here the poor, the disabled, the lame, and the blind.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The servant replied, "Master, everything has been done as you instructed, but there is still space available."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The master said to the servant, "Go out to the roads and the outskirts of the town, and urge the people there to come in, so that my house may be filled."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I tell you, not one of those men who were invited will partake of my feast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A large crowd followed him, and he turned to them and said:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone comes to me and does not prioritize me above their father, mother, wife, children, brothers, sisters, and even their own life, they cannot be my disciple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And whoever does not take up their own burden of sacrifice and follow me cannot be my disciple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Which one of you, planning to build a tower, does not first sit down and calculate the cost to determine whether you have enough to complete it?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Otherwise, if he lays the foundation but is unable to complete it, everyone who sees it will begin to ridicule him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "This man started to build but was unable to complete the work."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Or what king, when he sets out to wage war against another king, does not first sit down and consider whether he is capable with ten thousand soldiers to confront the one who comes against him with twenty thousand?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Alternatively, while the other is still far away, he sends a delegation and seeks terms of peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, whoever among you does not give up everything they possess cannot be my disciple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Salt is valuable, but if the salt loses its flavor, how can its taste be restored?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This substance is not suitable for the soil, nor even for the manure pile; people simply throw it away. Whoever has the ability to understand, let them pay attention.</span></p>






</body></html>