<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 32</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s973t0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5e27ed1c-85ad-fed8-b83c-08f2ed81ca95" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 32</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that came to Jeremiah from the LORD in the tenth year of Zedekiah’s reign as king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar’s rule.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the army of the king of Babylon laid siege to Jerusalem. Meanwhile, the prophet Jeremiah was confined in the courtyard of the guard, which was located in the palace of the king of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Zedekiah of Judah had imprisoned him, demanding, "Why do you prophesy and declare, 'This is what the LORD says: I am about to hand this city over to the king of Babylon, and he will capture it'?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zedekiah, the king of Judah, will not escape from the power of the Chaldeans. Instead, he will certainly be handed over to the king of Babylon. He will speak with him face to face, and his own eyes will look directly into the eyes of the Babylonian king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will bring Zedekiah to Babylon, and there he will remain until I deal with him, declares the LORD. Even if you fight against the Chaldeans, you will not succeed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeremiah said, "The word of the LORD came to me, saying,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: Hanamel, the son of your uncle Shallum, will come to you and say, “Purchase my field that is in Anathoth, for you have the legal right of redemption to buy it.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Hanamel, the son of my uncle, came to me in the courtyard of the prison, just as the LORD had said. He said to me, “Please buy my field that is in Anathoth, in the territory of Benjamin, for the right of inheritance belongs to you, and the duty of redemption is yours. Purchase it for yourself.” Then I understood that this was indeed the word of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I purchased the field from Hanameel, my cousin, which was located in Anathoth. I weighed out the payment for him—seventeen shekels of silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I signed the deed, sealed it, called witnesses, and carefully weighed out the money for him on the scales.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I took the documents of the purchase, both the sealed copy, as required by law and custom, and the unsealed copy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I handed over the deed of purchase to Baruch, the son of Neriah, the son of Maaseiah, in the presence of Hanameel, my uncle’s son, and in the presence of the witnesses who had signed the deed of purchase, as well as all the Jews who were seated in the courtyard of the prison.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I gave this charge to Baruch in their presence, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, says: Take these documents—this sealed deed of purchase and this unsealed one—and place them in a clay jar so that they may last for a long time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Houses, fields, and vineyards will once again be owned in this land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After I had given the deed of purchase to Baruch, the son of Neriah, I prayed to the LORD, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Oh Lord GOD! Look, You have created the heavens and the earth by Your immense power and mighty strength, and nothing is too difficult for You.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You demonstrate steadfast love to thousands, yet you hold the fathers accountable for their wrongdoing by bringing the consequences upon their children after them. The Great, the Mighty God, the LORD of armies, is his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are great in wisdom and mighty in action, for Your eyes observe all the ways of humanity, rewarding each person according to their conduct and the results of their deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have performed signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, continuing even to this day, and in Israel, and among all people. You have established a reputation for Yourself, as it remains to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You brought your people Israel out of the land of Egypt with miraculous signs, extraordinary wonders, a mighty hand, an outstretched arm, and with great acts of awe-inspiring power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have given them this land, which you promised with an oath to their ancestors to give them—a land abundant with nourishment and prosperity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They entered and took possession of the land, but they did not listen to your voice or follow your instructions. They failed to carry out all that you commanded them to do. As a result, you have brought all this disaster upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the siege ramps have been built up to the city to capture it, and the city is about to fall into the hands of the Chaldeans who are attacking it. This is happening because of the sword, the famine, and the plague. What you foretold has now come to pass, and you can see it with your own eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you have said to me, O Lord GOD, "Purchase the field with money and call witnesses, even though the city is being handed over to the Chaldeans."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, I am the LORD, the God of all humanity. Is anything too difficult for me?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says: "Listen carefully, I am about to hand this city over to the Chaldeans and to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon. He will capture it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Chaldeans, who are waging war against this city, will come and set it on fire, burning it down along with the houses where incense has been offered to Baal and drink offerings have been poured out to other gods—all to provoke me to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Israel and Judah have done nothing but evil in my sight from the time they were young. Indeed, the Israelites have done nothing but provoke me to anger by the things they have made and done, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This city has continually provoked my anger and wrath from the day it was built until now, to the point that I must remove it from my presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of all the wickedness committed by the people of Israel and the people of Judah—acts that have provoked me to anger—they, along with their kings, their leaders, their priests, their prophets, the men of Judah, and the residents of Jerusalem, have brought this upon themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have turned their backs to me instead of facing me. Even though I diligently taught them, rising early to instruct them, they have not listened or accepted my guidance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they placed their detestable idols in the temple that bears my name, thereby defiling it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They constructed the high places dedicated to Baal in the Valley of Ben Hinnom, where they sacrificed their sons and daughters by burning them in fire as offerings to Molech. This was something I never commanded them to do, nor did it ever enter my mind that they would commit such a detestable act, leading Judah into sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, this is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says concerning this city about which you claim, "It will be handed over to the king of Babylon by the sword, famine, and plague."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will gather them from all the lands where I have scattered them in my anger, fury, and intense wrath. I will bring them back to this place and allow them to live securely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will be my people, and I will be their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will give them a single heart and a single purpose, so that they will revere me forever, for their own good and for the good of their descendants after them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will establish an eternal covenant with them, promising that I will never turn away from them or cease to do good for them. Moreover, I will place my reverence in their hearts, so that they will not turn away from me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, I will take great delight in doing good to them, and I will firmly establish them in this land with all my heart and all my soul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says: Just as I have brought all this great disaster upon this people, so will I bring upon them all the good that I have promised them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Fields will be purchased in this land, about which you now say, "It is a desolate wasteland, without people or animals; it has been handed over to the Chaldeans."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People will purchase fields with money, sign deeds, seal them, and call witnesses to confirm the transactions in the land of Benjamin, in the areas surrounding Jerusalem, in the cities of Judah, in the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the lowlands, and in the cities of the southern region. For I will restore their fortunes and bring them back from exile, declares the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>