<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s99n5u.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:17f4efb8-ad35-9efc-cdc4-f702ec586d60" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People of Benjamin, assemble and prepare to escape from Jerusalem. Sound the alarm in Tekoa, and raise a signal fire in Beth-haccerem, for disaster is approaching from the north, bringing immense devastation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have compared the daughter of Zion to a beautiful and graceful woman.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The shepherds tending their flocks will come to her; they will set up their tents all around her; each one will graze their flock in their own place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prepare for battle against her; rise up, and let us attack at noon. Alas for us! The day is fading, and the evening shadows are growing long.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Get up, and let us go under the cover of night to demolish her fortresses."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD of hosts has declared: Cut down trees and build a siege ramp against Jerusalem. This is the city that must be judged; she is filled with nothing but oppression within her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as a spring continually pours out its waters, so she continually pours out her wickedness. Violence and destruction are heard within her; before me there is constant sorrow and injury.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen and learn, O Jerusalem, or else I will withdraw my presence from you, and you will become a desolate land, left uninhabited.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts declares: They will thoroughly gather the remnant of Israel like a vine. Turn your hand again, like a grape gatherer, to collect the fruit into the baskets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To whom should I speak and issue a warning so that they might listen? Look, their ears are closed and unresponsive; they cannot pay attention. See, the word of the LORD has become an object of scorn to them; they take no pleasure in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I am filled with the burning anger of the LORD; I am exhausted from holding it back. I will pour it out on the children in the streets and on the gatherings of young men. For even the husband and wife will be seized, and the elderly along with those advanced in years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their homes will be taken over by others, along with their fields and their wives, for I will extend my judgment against the people of the land, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the least to the greatest among them, everyone is consumed by greed. From the prophet to the priest, all of them act deceitfully.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have treated the wound of my people carelessly, declaring, "Peace, peace," when in fact there is no peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Did they feel any shame after committing such detestable acts? No, they felt no shame at all; they could not even blush. Because of this, they will fall among those who fall. When I bring judgment upon them, they will be brought down, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "Stand at the crossroads and look; inquire about the ancient paths. Ask where the good way is, and walk in it, and you will find rest for your souls." But they replied, "We will not walk in it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also appointed watchmen over you, saying, “Listen to the sound of the trumpet.” But they replied, “We will not listen.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen, you nations, and understand, O assembly, what is happening among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, O earth: take notice, I am about to bring disaster upon this people—the direct result of their own schemes—because they have refused to listen to my words and have turned away from my instruction, rejecting it entirely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What use is it to me when incense comes from Sheba, or sweet cane from a distant land? Your burnt offerings are not pleasing to me, nor are your sacrifices acceptable in my sight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says: "Listen carefully, I am going to place obstacles in the path of this people, and both fathers and sons will stumble over them together. Neighbors and friends will also perish alongside one another."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Look, a people is coming from the land of the north, and a mighty nation will arise from the farthest parts of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will take up bow and spear; they are ruthless and show no compassion; their voices roar like the crashing sea; and they ride on horses, arrayed in battle formation, ready to wage war against you, O daughter of Zion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have heard reports of it, and our hands grow weak; distress has seized us, and agony, like that of a woman in labor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not go out into the open fields, nor travel along the road, for the enemy’s sword and terror surround you on every side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O people of my nation, clothe yourselves in sackcloth and roll in ashes; mourn deeply, as one would for an only son, with the most intense grief. For the destroyer will come upon us suddenly and without warning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have appointed you as a watchtower and a stronghold among my people, so that you may observe and examine their ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are all deeply rebellious, spreading slander as they go. They are like brass and iron—hardened and unyielding. Every one of them is corrupt, bringing ruin wherever they turn.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bellows are scorched, the lead is consumed by the fire; the metalworker labors in vain, for the wicked are not removed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People will regard them as worthless silver, for the LORD has rejected them.</span></p>






</body></html>