<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nehemiah Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9e3pl.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8bd645c5-b75a-005e-25d0-6817785ebbcd" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nehemiah Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people assembled together as one in the open area in front of the Water Gate. They asked Ezra the scribe to bring the Book of the Law of Moses, which the LORD had given to Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ezra the priest presented the law before the assembly, which included both men and women, as well as all who were capable of understanding what was being read. This took place on the first day of the seventh month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He read aloud from the book of the law in the open area in front of the Water Gate, from early morning until midday, in the presence of the men, women, and all who could understand. The ears of all the people were intently focused on the reading of the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ezra the scribe stood on a wooden platform that had been constructed for this occasion. Beside him stood Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Urijah, Hilkiah, and Maaseiah on his right side, and on his left side were Pedaiah, Mishael, Malchiah, Hashum, Hashbadana, Zechariah, and Meshullam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ezra unrolled the scroll in full view of all the people, for he stood in a position elevated above them. As he opened it, the entire assembly rose to their feet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ezra praised the LORD, the great God. Then all the people responded, "Amen, Amen," as they lifted their hands. They bowed their heads and worshiped the LORD, their faces to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeshua, Bani, Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodijah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the Levites explained the law to the people, helping them comprehend its meaning. The people remained in their places as they listened attentively.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they read aloud from the book of God’s law with clarity, explaining its meaning and helping the people understand what was being read.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nehemiah, the governor, along with Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who were instructing the people, said to all the assembly, "This day is sacred to the LORD your God. Do not mourn or weep." For all the people had been weeping as they listened to the words of the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to them, "Go your way, eat the rich food, drink the sweet beverages, and share portions with those who have nothing prepared, for today is sacred to our Lord. Do not grieve, for the joy of the LORD is your source of strength."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites calmed all the people, saying, "Be quiet, for today is a sacred day. Do not grieve or be distressed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the people went on their way to eat and drink, to share gifts with one another, and to celebrate with great joy, because they had comprehended the words that had been made clear to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the second day, the leaders of the families of all the people, along with the priests and the Levites, assembled before Ezra the scribe to gain a deeper understanding of the words of the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They discovered written in the law, which the LORD had given through Moses, that the people of Israel were to live in temporary shelters during the festival of the seventh month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were to announce and declare in all their cities and in Jerusalem, saying, "Go out to the mountains and bring back olive branches, pine branches, myrtle branches, palm branches, and branches from leafy trees to make shelters, as it is written."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the people went out and gathered materials, and they constructed temporary shelters for themselves—each one on the roof of their own house, in their courtyards, in the courtyards of the house of God, in the open area by the Water Gate, and in the square near the Gate of Ephraim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire assembly of those who had returned from captivity built temporary shelters and sat beneath them. From the days of Joshua son of Nun until that time, the people of Israel had not celebrated in this way. And there was an overwhelming sense of joy among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every single day, from the first day to the last, he read aloud from the book of God's law. They celebrated the festival for seven days, and on the eighth day, they held a sacred gathering, following the prescribed custom.</span></p>






</body></html>