<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9fjoc.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:fcfc4c04-0878-95a1-bda0-b8110ade3f41" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, I looked, and behold, a door stood open in heaven. And the first voice I heard was like a trumpet speaking to me, saying, "Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after these things."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At once, I was caught up in the Spirit, and there before me was a throne established in heaven, with someone seated upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one seated on the throne appeared in appearance like a jasper and a carnelian stone. Surrounding the throne was a rainbow, which gleamed with the brilliance of an emerald.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Surrounding the throne were twenty-four seats, and on those seats I saw twenty-four elders seated. They were dressed in white garments and wore golden crowns on their heads.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the throne came flashes of lightning, rumblings, and peals of thunder. In front of the throne, seven blazing lamps were burning, which represent the sevenfold Spirit of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In front of the throne, there was what appeared to be a sea of glass, clear as crystal. Surrounding the throne, and at its center, were four living creatures, covered with eyes both in front and behind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The first living creature resembled a lion, the second looked like a young ox, the third had the face of a human, and the fourth appeared like a soaring eagle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each of the four living creatures had six wings, and their bodies were covered with eyes all around, even under their wings. Day and night, without ceasing, they proclaim, "Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was, who is, and who is to come."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when those living creatures give praise, honor, and gratitude to the one seated on the throne, who lives eternally and forever,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The twenty-four elders fell down before the one seated on the throne and worshiped him who lives forever and ever. They cast their crowns before the throne, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are worthy, O Lord, to receive glory, honor, and power, for you created all things, and by your will they exist and were created.</span></p>






</body></html>