<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9frld.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7c3ddcc6-9289-b9fb-fbf8-0754c1fb6b71" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A prophecy concerning Egypt: Look, the LORD is riding on a swift cloud and will come to Egypt. The idols of Egypt will tremble before Him, and the courage of the Egyptians will fail within them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will turn the Egyptians against one another, so that they will fight each other—brother against brother, neighbor against neighbor, city against city, and kingdom against kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The strength and resolve of Egypt will falter within its own borders, and I will bring its plans to ruin. The people will turn to their idols, to those who practice sorcery, to mediums who consult spirits, and to those who claim to communicate with the dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will deliver the Egyptians into the control of a harsh and ruthless ruler, and a tyrannical king will dominate them. This is the declaration of the Lord, the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The waters will vanish from the sea, and the river will be depleted and dry up completely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will divert the rivers far from their courses, and the streams that once provided protection will be drained and dried up. The reeds and rushes will wither and decay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The papyrus plants along the riverbanks, at the edges of the streams, and all the crops planted near the watercourses will dry up, be swept away, and vanish completely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fishermen will grieve, and all who cast their hooks into the streams will mourn. Those who spread their nets upon the waters will grow weak and despair.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, those who craft fine linen and those who weave intricate designs will be put to shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And their plans will come to nothing—all those who construct channels and reservoirs to trap fish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, the leaders of Zoan are foolish; the advice of Pharaoh’s wise counselors has become senseless. How can you say to Pharaoh, “I am a descendant of the wise, a child of ancient kings”?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Where are they now? Where are your wise men? Let them come forward and declare to you, and let them make known what the LORD of hosts has determined concerning Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of Zoan have turned to folly, and the rulers of Noph are misled. They have led Egypt astray—those who were the cornerstone of its tribes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has stirred up a spirit of confusion within them, causing Egypt to stumble in all its endeavors, just as a drunkard staggers in his own filth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No work will be left for Egypt to accomplish, whether by its leaders or its followers, the mighty or the insignificant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, Egypt will become like a trembling woman, filled with fear and dread because of the threatening hand of the LORD of hosts, which He raises against it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land of Judah will become a source of dread to Egypt; everyone who hears of it will be filled with fear because of the plan that the LORD of hosts has determined against it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, five cities in the land of Egypt will speak the language of Canaan and pledge their loyalty to the LORD of hosts. One of these cities will be called the City of Destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, there will be an altar dedicated to the LORD in the heart of Egypt, and a monument at its border, also dedicated to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This will serve as a sign and a testimony to the LORD of hosts in the land of Egypt, for they will cry out to the LORD because of their oppressors, and He will send them a Savior, a mighty one, who will rescue them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will make himself known to Egypt, and the Egyptians will come to know the LORD on that day. They will offer sacrifices and grain offerings; indeed, they will make vows to the LORD and fulfill them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will strike Egypt with judgment, but He will also bring healing. The people will turn back to the LORD, and He will respond to their pleas, restoring and healing them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, there will be a direct route from Egypt to Assyria. The Assyrians will travel to Egypt, and the Egyptians will travel to Assyria. The Egyptians and Assyrians will worship together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, Israel will stand alongside Egypt and Assyria as the third, becoming a blessing in the midst of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD of hosts will bless them, declaring: "Blessed is Egypt, my people; Assyria, the creation of my hands; and Israel, my chosen possession."</span></p>






</body></html>