<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Romans Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9htu5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0a700b4e-a86b-8959-bfe2-e477fdb6d727" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Romans Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, since we have been declared righteous through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through Him, we also have access by faith into this grace in which we firmly stand, and we rejoice in the confident hope of experiencing the glory of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Not only that, but we also take pride in our hardships, knowing that hardship produces perseverance;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Endurance produces character, and character produces hope.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And hope does not disappoint us, because the love of God has been poured out into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the time when we were still powerless and unable to save ourselves, Christ, at the appointed time, died for the sake of the ungodly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It is rare for someone to die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a truly good person, someone might be willing to lay down their life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But God demonstrates his own love for us in this: while we were still sinners, Christ died on our behalf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, since we have now been declared righteous by His blood, we will certainly be saved from God’s wrath through Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if, while we were still enemies, we were restored to a right relationship with God through the death of His Son, how much more certainly, now that we have been reconciled, will we be saved and preserved by His life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Not only that, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world, and death through sin, so death spread to all people, because all have sinned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For before the law was given, sin was already present in the world. However, sin is not counted against anyone when there is no law to define it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nevertheless, death held dominion from the time of Adam until the time of Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the same way as Adam, whose transgression serves as a pattern of the one who was to come.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the free gift is not like the transgression. For if by the transgression of one person, many died, how much more has the grace of God and the gift given through grace—by the one man, Jesus Christ—overflowed to many.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The gift is not like the result of one man’s sin. For the judgment that followed one sin brought condemnation, but the free gift that comes after many transgressions leads to justification.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if through the transgression of one man, death came to rule over all, how much more will those who receive the overflowing gift of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one, Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, just as through the transgression of one person, judgment came upon all humanity, resulting in condemnation, so also through the righteous act of one person, the gracious gift came to all, leading to justification and life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as through the disobedience of one man many were made sinners, so also through the obedience of one man many will be made righteous.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the law was introduced so that the extent of sin might become fully evident. Yet where sin increased, grace overflowed even more abundantly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as sin ruled, leading to death, so also grace might rule through righteousness, bringing eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.</span></p>






</body></html>