<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9j42t.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:1c693d41-ae3a-ff74-bcc3-86d4f79e8af0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD said to me: "Go and acquire a linen belt, fasten it around your waist, but do not let it touch water."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I obtained a belt, as the LORD had instructed, and fastened it around my waist.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the word of the LORD came to me a second time, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take the belt that you have, the one around your waist, and get up, go to the Euphrates, and hide it there in a crevice of the rock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I went and concealed it by the Euphrates, just as the LORD had instructed me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After a long period of time had passed, the LORD spoke to me, saying, "Get up, go to the Euphrates, and retrieve the belt from there—the one I instructed you to hide in that place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I went to the Euphrates, dug up the ground, and retrieved the belt from the place where I had hidden it. But when I looked at it, the belt was ruined—completely useless and good for nothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: In this way, I will destroy the arrogance of Judah and the overwhelming pride of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This wicked people, who refuse to listen to my words, who follow the stubborn desires of their hearts and chase after other gods, serving and worshiping them, will become like this belt—completely useless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019278"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD says: Just as a belt clings tightly to a person’s waist, so I bound the entire house of Israel and the entire house of Judah closely to myself. My purpose was for them to become my people, a source of renown, praise, and honor for me. But they refused to listen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019279"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you shall speak this message to them: "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: Every jar will be filled with wine." And they will respond to you, "Do we not already know very well that every jar will be filled with wine?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019280"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall say to them, "This is what the LORD declares: Behold, I will overwhelm all the people of this land—including the kings who sit on David’s throne, the priests, the prophets, and all the residents of Jerusalem—with a state of confusion and helplessness, like that of drunkenness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares: "I will cause them to clash against one another—fathers and sons alike. I will show no compassion, no restraint, and no mercy; I will bring about their destruction."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019282"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen closely and pay attention; do not be arrogant, for the LORD has spoken.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Give honor and praise to the LORD your God before He brings darkness, before your feet stumble on the shadowed mountains, and while you seek light, He turns it into the gloom of death, making it deep and overwhelming darkness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you refuse to listen, my soul will weep in hidden places because of your arrogance. My eyes will overflow with tears, streaming down in sorrow, for the Lord’s flock has been taken captive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell the king and the queen, "Lower yourselves and take a seat, for your positions of power will be brought down, even the crown of your honor."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cities in the southern region will be closed off, with no one able to open them. Judah will be taken captive in its entirety; it will be completely carried away into exile.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look up and see those approaching from the north. Where is the flock entrusted to you, your magnificent flock?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What will you say when He holds you accountable? For you have trained them to be your leaders, to rule over you. Will not anguish seize you, like the pain of a woman in labor?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if you say in your heart, “Why have these things happened to me?” It is because of the enormity of your sin that your garments have been stripped away, and your shame has been exposed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Can an Ethiopian change the color of his skin, or a leopard alter its spots? In the same way, can you who are accustomed to doing evil learn to do what is good?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will scatter them like dry stubble carried away by the desert wind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is your allotted portion, the measure I have assigned to you, declares the LORD, because you have forgotten me and placed your trust in deceit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will lift up your garments over your face, exposing your shame for all to see.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have witnessed your acts of unfaithfulness and your passionate cravings, the shamelessness of your promiscuity and your detestable practices on the hills and in the fields. Woe to you, O Jerusalem! Will you not be cleansed? How long will it be before you are made pure?</span></p>






</body></html>