<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nahum Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9r1ae.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b54bcc4c-93c7-8a83-d892-59e1bdca6b5a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nahum Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Disaster is coming to the city of bloodshed! It is completely filled with deceit and plunder; its victims never cease to fall."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sound of the whip cracking, the clatter of wheels spinning, the pounding of galloping horses, and the bounding of chariots leaping forward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The rider raises both the gleaming sword and the shining spear. There is a vast number of those killed, a great heap of dead bodies, and there is no end to the corpses. They stumble over the fallen bodies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the many acts of prostitution by the alluring prostitute, the mistress of sorcery, who sells nations through her promiscuity and families through her witchcraft.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for I am against you, declares the LORD of hosts. I will strip away your covering and expose you completely, laying bare your disgrace before your face. I will reveal your nakedness to the nations and your shame to all the kingdoms.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cover you with detestable filth and make you utterly disgraceful. I will expose you as a spectacle for all to see.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: All who see you will flee from you and say, "Nineveh is utterly destroyed! Who will mourn for her? Where can I find anyone to comfort her?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are you more powerful than the great city of No-amon, which was located among the rivers, surrounded by waters, with the sea as its defense and the sea as its protective wall?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ethiopia and Egypt were her source of immense power, and it was boundless; Put and Libya were your allies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet she was taken away and led into captivity. Her young children were brutally killed at every street corner, and her noble leaders were chosen by lot to be enslaved, while all her prominent men were bound in chains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You too will become drunk; you will be hidden away, and you will seek strength to endure because of the enemy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All your fortified cities will be like fig trees bearing early fruit: when they are shaken, the figs will fall right into the mouth of the one who eats them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, your people within your midst have become weak and helpless like women. The gates of your land will be thrown wide open to your enemies, and fire will consume the bars that once secured them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prepare water for the siege; strengthen your fortresses. Work the clay, mix the mortar, and reinforce the brick kiln.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There, the fire will consume you; the sword will destroy you, devouring you like the cankerworm. Even if you multiply yourself like the cankerworm or increase your numbers like locusts, it will not save you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have greatly increased your merchants, more numerous than the stars in the sky. Yet the locust devours and then flies away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your leaders are like swarms of locusts, and your commanders like large grasshoppers that settle in the hedges on a cold day. But when the sun rises, they scatter and disappear, and no one knows where they have gone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your shepherds are asleep, O king of Assyria; your leaders lie in the dust. Your people are scattered across the mountains, with no one to gather them together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your injury is beyond healing; your wound is severe. All who hear the news about you will clap their hands in dismay, for who has not been continually affected by your wickedness?</span></p>






</body></html>