<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9sbi5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f115a1f3-8fa8-793e-cd50-378b10b06faa" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I was given a measuring rod resembling a staff, and the angel stood there and said, "Get up and measure the temple of God, the altar, and those who worship there."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, do not measure the outer courtyard of the temple, for it has been given over to the Gentiles. They will trample upon the holy city for forty-two months.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for one thousand two hundred and sixty days, dressed in sackcloth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone seeks to harm them, fire will come forth from their mouths and consume their enemies. And if anyone attempts to harm them, they must be killed in this way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These individuals have the authority to close up the sky so that no rain falls during the time of their prophetic ministry. They also have the power to turn waters into blood and to strike the earth with every kind of plague, as often as they desire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they have completed their testimony, the beast that rises from the abyss will wage war against them, overpower them, and put them to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And their lifeless bodies will lie in the public square of the great city, which is symbolically referred to as Sodom and Egypt, the very place where our Lord was also crucified.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People from every tribe, language, and nation will see their dead bodies for three and a half days, and they will not allow their bodies to be placed in a tomb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people living on the earth will rejoice over them, celebrate, and exchange gifts with one another, because these two prophets had brought torment to those who dwelled on the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After three and a half days, the breath of life from God entered them, and they stood up on their feet. Those who saw them were filled with great fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they heard a mighty voice from heaven calling to them, "Come up here!" And they rose up to heaven in a cloud, while their enemies watched them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that very moment, a powerful earthquake struck, and a tenth of the city collapsed. In the earthquake, seven thousand people were killed. The survivors were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The second disaster has passed; and now, the third disaster is coming swiftly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and loud voices were heard in heaven, proclaiming: "The kingdoms of this world have now become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Messiah, and he will reign forever and ever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the twenty-four elders, who were seated before God on their thrones, fell face down and worshiped God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We say, "We thank you, Lord God Almighty, who is, who was, and who is to come, because you have taken up your great power and have begun to reign."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The nations were filled with anger, and your wrath has now come. The time has arrived for the dead to be judged, and for you to reward your servants—the prophets, the saints, and all who revere your name, both small and great. It is also the time to bring destruction upon those who are destroying the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the temple of God in heaven was opened, and within his temple the ark of his covenant was seen. And there were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, an earthquake, and a great hailstorm.</span></p>






</body></html>