<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9t0if.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:57aa5acd-e693-6f23-3362-d49b2801c9e2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the queen of Sheba heard about Solomon’s reputation, particularly in connection with the name of the LORD, she came to test him with challenging questions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She arrived in Jerusalem with an exceptionally large entourage, accompanied by camels carrying spices, a vast amount of gold, and precious stones. When she met Solomon, she spoke with him about everything that was on her mind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Solomon answered all her questions; there was nothing so difficult or hidden from the king that he could not explain it to her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the queen of Sheba witnessed all of Solomon's wisdom and the palace he had constructed,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The provisions of his table, the seating of his officials, the service of his attendants and their attire, his cupbearers, and the way he went up to the house of the LORD—all of this left her utterly overwhelmed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman said to the king, "The report I heard in my own country about your achievements and your wisdom is true."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I did not believe the reports until I came and saw it with my own eyes. And now, I realize that not even half of it was told to me. Your wisdom and wealth far surpass the stories I had heard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Blessed are your people, blessed are these servants of yours who continually serve in your presence and listen to your wisdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Praise be to the LORD your God, who has shown His favor by placing you on the throne of Israel. Because the LORD loves Israel eternally, He has appointed you as king to uphold justice and righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She presented the king with 120 talents of gold, an immense quantity of spices, and precious gemstones. Never again was such an abundance of spices brought as those which the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, the fleet of Hiram, which transported gold from Ophir, also brought from Ophir a large quantity of almug wood and precious stones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king used the almug wood to make pillars for the house of the LORD and for his own palace, as well as harps and lyres for the musicians. No such almug trees had ever been brought or seen in the land up to that time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon granted the queen of Sheba everything she desired, whatever she requested, in addition to what he generously gave her from his royal treasures. Then she and her attendants departed and returned to her own land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The amount of gold that came to Solomon in a single year weighed six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In addition to what he received from the merchants and the trade of the spice dealers, as well as from all the kings of Arabia and the regional governors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon crafted two hundred large shields made of hammered gold, with six hundred shekels of gold used for each shield.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted three hundred shields made of hammered gold, with each shield requiring three pounds of gold. The king then placed these shields in the House of the Forest of Lebanon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the king constructed a magnificent throne made of ivory and covered it with the finest gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The throne had six steps leading up to it, and the back of the throne was rounded at the top. On either side of the seat, there were armrests, and beside each armrest stood a lion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Twelve lions stood there, six on each side of the steps. Nothing like this had ever been made in any other kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of King Solomon's drinking cups were made of gold, and all the utensils in the House of the Forest of Lebanon were crafted from pure gold. Silver was not used for any of these items, as it was considered of little value during Solomon's reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king maintained a fleet of Tarshish ships, operating alongside Hiram's fleet. Every three years, the Tarshish fleet would arrive, carrying cargoes of gold, silver, ivory, apes, and peacocks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon surpassed all the kings of the earth in both wealth and wisdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And people from all over the world came to Solomon to listen to the wisdom that God had placed in his heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each man brought his tribute: items of silver and gold, clothing, weapons, spices, horses, and mules—a fixed amount every year.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon assembled a large force of chariots and horsemen. He acquired 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horsemen, which he stationed in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stones, and cedar wood as plentiful as the sycamore trees in the lowlands, because of their great abundance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon acquired horses from Egypt, as well as fine linen. The king’s traders purchased the linen at a set price.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A chariot was imported from Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver, and a horse for one hundred and fifty shekels. In the same way, they supplied chariots and horses to all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Aram through their trading networks.</span></p>






</body></html>