<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9t7i7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2a91f542-2215-4e2b-a869-520d095804c2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD will show compassion to Jacob and will once again choose Israel, settling them in their own land. Foreigners will unite with them and become closely connected to the family of Jacob.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people will take them and bring them to their own land. The house of Israel will claim them as servants and maidservants in the land of the LORD. They will take captive those who once held them captive, and they will rule over those who oppressed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on the day when the LORD grants you relief from your suffering, from your fear, and from the harsh oppression under which you were forced to labor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall take up this taunt against the king of Babylon and say: How the oppressor has come to an end! How his tyranny has ceased! The city of gold, once so proud, is now brought low!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has shattered the power of the wicked and broken the authority of oppressive rulers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who struck down the people in wrath with unrelenting blows, who ruled the nations in anger, is now pursued, and no one intervenes to stop it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire earth is at rest and peaceful; they burst forth in joyful song.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, the fir trees rejoice because of you, and the cedars of Lebanon exclaim, "Since you have been laid low, no one has come to cut us down."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The realm of the dead below is stirred up to meet you when you arrive; it rouses the spirits of the departed for you, even all the great leaders of the earth. It has caused all the kings of the nations to rise from their thrones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of them will speak and say to you, "Have you also become weak like us? Have you become just like us?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your grandeur has been brought down to the grave, and the sound of your harps has ceased. The maggots are laid out beneath you, and worms now cover you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How you have fallen from heaven, O morning star, son of the dawn! How you have been cast down to the earth, you who once weakened the nations!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you have declared in your heart, "I will ascend to the heavens; I will raise my throne above the stars of God. I will sit on the mount of the assembly, on the far reaches of the north."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will rise above the highest clouds; I will make myself equal to the Most High.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet you will be brought down to the realm of the dead, to the depths of the grave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who see you will gaze intently at you and ponder, saying, "Is this the one who caused the earth to quake, who made kingdoms tremble?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who turned the world into a desolate wasteland and laid waste to its cities, who refused to release his captives from their prison?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the kings of the nations, every single one of them, rest in honor, each within his own tomb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you have been cast out of your grave like a detestable branch, like the clothing of those who were slain, pierced by the sword, who descend to the stones of the pit; like a corpse trampled underfoot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall not be buried alongside them, for you have devastated your land and slaughtered your people. The descendants of those who do evil will never be remembered with honor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prepare a time of judgment for his children because of the sins of their ancestors, so that they may not rise up, take possession of the land, or cover the earth with their cities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will take action against them, declares the LORD of hosts, and I will eliminate from Babylon every trace of their name, their survivors, their descendants, and their posterity, says the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also make it a dwelling place for the bittern and turn it into pools of water. I will sweep it clean with the broom of destruction, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD Almighty has made a solemn declaration, saying, "Just as I have planned, so it will surely happen; and as I have determined, so it will firmly stand."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will crush the Assyrian in my land and trample him underfoot on my mountains. Then his oppressive yoke will be removed from my people, and the heavy burden he placed on their shoulders will be lifted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the plan that has been determined for the entire earth, and this is the power that is extended over all the nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD Almighty has determined a plan, and who can thwart it? His hand is extended, and who can turn it back?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the year that King Ahaz died, this prophecy was given.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not rejoice, all of Philistia, because the rod of the one who struck you is broken. For from the serpent's root will emerge a venomous serpent, and its offspring will be a fiery, flying serpent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The most vulnerable among the poor will find sustenance, and the destitute will rest securely. Yet I will destroy your foundation with famine, and your remaining survivors will be cut down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wail, O gate; cry out, O city; all of Philistia, you are crumbling, for from the north comes a cloud of smoke, and no one will escape when the appointed time arrives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What, then, should one say to the messengers of the nation? Tell them that the LORD has established Zion, and the humble among His people will find refuge and trust in it.</span></p>






</body></html>