<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9tx1l.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:beaf7f13-1a90-7f0d-8b17-52d1db772873" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the former heaven and the former earth had passed away, and the sea was no more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I, John, saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, descending from God out of heaven, made ready like a bride beautifully adorned for her husband.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I heard a loud voice from heaven proclaiming: "Look! The dwelling place of God is now among humanity, and he will live with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and there will be no more death, nor grief, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one seated on the throne said, "Look, I am making everything new." Then he said to me, "Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to me, "It is accomplished. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the one who is thirsty, I will freely give from the spring of the water of life."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who is victorious will inherit everything, and I will be their God, and they will be my child.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, the murderers, the sexually immoral, those who practice sorcery, the idolaters, and all liars—their place will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then one of the seven angels who held the seven bowls filled with the seven final plagues came to me and spoke, saying, “Come here, and I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, in a spiritual vision, he took me to a vast and towering mountain, and there he showed me the magnificent city, the holy Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Radiating the splendor of God, her brilliance resembled a gem of extraordinary value, like a jasper stone, transparent and pure as crystal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The city had a massive and towering wall, with twelve gates. At each gate stood an angel, and inscribed on the gates were the names of the twelve tribes of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eastern side, there are three gates; on the northern side, three gates; on the southern side, three gates; and on the western side, three gates.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The city's wall had twelve foundations, and on them were inscribed the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one speaking with me held a golden measuring rod to measure the city, its gates, and its walls.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The city is laid out in a perfect square, with its length equal to its width. He measured the city with the measuring rod, and it was twelve thousand furlongs in size. The length, width, and height of the city are all equal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He measured the wall, and it was 144 cubits in height, using the standard measure of a man, which is also the measure used by the angel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wall of the city was constructed of jasper, and the city itself was made of pure gold, as clear and radiant as transparent glass.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The foundations of the city wall were adorned with every kind of precious stone. The first foundation was made of jasper, the second of sapphire, the third of chalcedony, and the fourth of emerald.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fifth stone was sardonyx; the sixth, carnelian; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprase; the eleventh, jacinth; and the twelfth, amethyst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The twelve gates were made of twelve pearls, with each gate consisting of a single pearl. The main street of the city was pure gold, gleaming like transparent glass.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I saw no temple in the city, because the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are its temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The city had no need for the sun or the moon to shine upon it, for the radiant glory of God illuminated it, and the Lamb was its source of light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the nations of those who are saved will walk by its light, and the kings of the earth will bring their splendor and honor into it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The gates of the city will never be closed during the day, for there will be no night there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they will bring the splendor and wealth of the nations into it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nothing that is unclean, nor anyone who practices detestable things or spreads falsehood, will ever enter it. Only those whose names are recorded in the Lamb’s book of life will be allowed in.</span></p>






</body></html>