<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 34</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9xun7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:83d2e18a-e429-d2ee-add5-abf7a342668e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 34</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Approach, you nations, and listen; pay attention, you peoples. Let the earth hear, and all that fills it; the world, and everything that springs from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord’s wrath is directed against all nations, and His fierce anger is against all their armies. He has completely destroyed them; He has handed them over to be slaughtered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bodies of those killed will be thrown out, and the stench of their decaying corpses will rise up. The mountains will flow with their blood, as if melting away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire array of the heavens will disintegrate, and the skies will be rolled up like a scroll. All their celestial bodies will collapse, just as a leaf withers and falls from the vine, or as a ripe fig drops from the fig tree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For my sword will be prepared in heaven; indeed, it will descend upon Edom and upon the people I have condemned, to execute judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sword of the LORD is drenched with blood, saturated with the fat of sacrifices—with the blood of lambs and goats, and the rich fat from the kidneys of rams. For the LORD has prepared a sacrifice in Bozrah and a massive slaughter in the land of Edom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wild oxen will descend with them, and the young bulls alongside the mature bulls; their land will be drenched with blood, and their soil will be saturated with the richness of fat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is the day of the LORD’s vengeance, the year of retribution for the cause of Zion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The rivers of that land will turn to tar, and its soil will become sulfur; the whole land will be transformed into a blazing pool of burning tar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fire will not be extinguished, day or night; its smoke will rise perpetually. From one generation to the next, the land will remain desolate; no one will ever pass through it again, for all eternity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the cormorant and the heron will claim it as their own; the owl and the raven will make their home there. He will stretch over it the measuring line of chaos and the plumb line of desolation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people will summon their nobles to establish a kingdom, but none will respond, and all their leaders will come to nothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Thorns will grow in her palaces, nettles and brambles in her fortresses. It will become a dwelling place for jackals and a haunt for owls.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The desert creatures will encounter the wild animals of the wilderness, and the goat-demon will call out to its companion. The night creature will also settle there and find a resting place for itself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In that place, the great owl will build her nest, lay her eggs, hatch them, and gather her young under her protection. There the vultures will also gather, each with its mate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Search through the book of the LORD and read it: not one of these will be missing, nor will any lack its companion. For it is my mouth that has commanded it, and his Spirit that has gathered them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has assigned their portion by casting lots, and His hand has apportioned it to them with precise measure. They will possess it forever; from one generation to the next, they will dwell in it.</span></p>






</body></html>