<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9y4wc.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:24e4d234-ecfa-6e7b-5a36-594595caada0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha the prophet summoned one of the young prophets and said to him, "Prepare yourself for action, take this flask of oil in your hand, and go to Ramoth-gilead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you arrive there, look for Jehu, the son of Jehoshaphat and grandson of Nimshi. Go in, call him aside from his brothers, and bring him into a private room.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take the flask of oil, pour it on his head, and declare, "This is what the LORD says: I have anointed you as king over Israel." Then open the door, leave quickly, and do not delay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the young man, who was a prophet, went to Ramoth-gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrived, he saw the commanders of the army sitting together. He said, "I have a message for you, commander." Jehu replied, "For which one of us?" He answered, "For you, commander."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He got up and entered the house. Then he poured the oil on his head and said to him, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: I have anointed you as king over the people of the LORD, over Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must strike down the house of Ahab, your master, so that I may bring justice for the blood of my servants the prophets and for the blood of all the servants of the LORD, which was shed by the hand of Jezebel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire house of Ahab will be destroyed. I will eliminate from Ahab every male descendant, both those who are active and those who are confined or abandoned in Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring the house of Ahab to the same fate as the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, and the house of Baasha, the son of Ahijah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The dogs will devour Jezebel in the territory of Jezreel, and no one will be left to bury her. Then he opened the door and fled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jehu went out to the officers of his master, and one of them asked him, "Is everything all right? Why did this crazy man come to you?" Jehu replied, "You know the man and the kind of things he says."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied, "That's not true. Tell us plainly." And he said, "This is what he told me: 'This is what the LORD says: I have anointed you as king over Israel.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they quickly acted, each man taking his own cloak and placing it beneath him on the steps of the high place. They sounded the trumpets and proclaimed, "Jehu is king!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jehu, the son of Jehoshaphat and grandson of Nimshi, plotted against Joram. (At that time, Joram, along with all Israel, had been stationed at Ramoth-gilead to defend against Hazael, the king of Syria.)</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But King Joram had returned to Jezreel to recover from the wounds inflicted on him by the Arameans when he fought against Hazael, king of Aram. Jehu said, "If you are in agreement, make sure no one leaves the city to go and report this to Jezreel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jehu traveled by chariot and went to Jezreel, where Joram was recovering. Meanwhile, Ahaziah, the king of Judah, had come down to visit Joram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A watchman stood on the tower in Jezreel, and he saw Jehu’s company approaching. He called out, “I see a group of men coming!” Joram responded, “Send a horseman to meet them and ask, ‘Do you come in peace?’”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A messenger on horseback went out to meet him and said, "This is what the king says: Is all well?" Jehu replied, "What do you have to do with peace? Fall in behind me." The watchman reported, "The messenger reached them, but he is not returning."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he sent out a second messenger on horseback, who approached them and said, "This is what the king says: Is all well?" Jehu replied, "What concern is peace to you? Fall in behind me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The watchman reported, saying, "He reached them but is not returning. The way he drives is like the driving of Jehu, the son of Nimshi, for he drives with great intensity."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joram commanded, "Prepare the chariot." So his chariot was made ready. Then Joram, the king of Israel, and Ahaziah, the king of Judah, each rode out in his own chariot to confront Jehu. They went to meet him at the plot of land that had belonged to Naboth the Jezreelite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Joram saw Jehu, he asked, "Is everything peaceful, Jehu?" Jehu replied, "How can there be peace as long as your mother Jezebel continues her idolatrous practices and her many acts of sorcery?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joram turned his chariot around and fled, calling out to Ahaziah, "Ahaziah, it's a trap—there is betrayal here!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehu drew his bow with all his might and shot Jehoram, striking him between the shoulders. The arrow pierced through his heart, and he collapsed in his chariot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jehu said to Bidkar, his officer, "Pick him up and throw him into the plot of land belonging to Naboth the Jezreelite. Remember how, when you and I were riding together behind Ahab his father, the LORD pronounced this judgment against him:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, I witnessed yesterday the blood of Naboth and the blood of his sons, declares the LORD. I will repay you in this very plot of land, says the LORD. Therefore, take him now and throw him into this plot of ground, in accordance with the word of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When King Ahaziah of Judah saw what was happening, he fled toward the garden house. Jehu pursued him and commanded, "Strike him down in his chariot as well." They struck him at the ascent of Gur, near Ibleam. Ahaziah fled to Megiddo, where he died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His servants transported him in a chariot to Jerusalem and laid him to rest in his tomb alongside his ancestors in the City of David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eleventh year of Joram, the son of Ahab, Ahaziah began his reign over Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jehu arrived in Jezreel, Jezebel heard about it. She applied makeup to her face, adorned her hair, and looked out from a window.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Jehu approached the gate, she called out, "Did Zimri find peace, even though he murdered his master?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He turned his gaze toward the window and called out, "Who is with me? Who?" Then two or three eunuchs looked out at him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He commanded, "Throw her down." So they threw her down, and her blood splattered on the wall and on the horses. Then he trampled her underfoot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrived, he ate and drank, and then said, "Go and attend to this cursed woman and bury her, for she is the daughter of a king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They went to bury her, but they found nothing left of her except her skull, her feet, and the palms of her hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they returned and reported this to him. He said, "This is the word of the LORD, which He spoke through His servant Elijah the Tishbite: 'In the territory of Jezreel, dogs will devour the flesh of Jezebel.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The body of Jezebel will lie like manure on the surface of the field in the region of Jezreel, so that no one will be able to say, "This is Jezebel."</span></p>






</body></html>