<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\s9z0mm.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7d7d65c8-d362-d2c8-0e9a-78bad31d2e7f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then some of the elders of Israel came to me and sat down in my presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, these people have enshrined their idols in their hearts and placed the stumbling block of their sin right before their eyes. Should I allow them to consult me at all?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, speak to them and say, "This is what the Lord GOD declares: Every person from the house of Israel who harbors idols in their heart and places the stumbling block of their sin before their face, yet still comes to the prophet—I, the LORD, will answer them in accordance with the abundance of their idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that I may confront the house of Israel in their innermost thoughts, for they have all turned away from me, led astray by their idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, speak to the house of Israel and say: This is what the Lord GOD declares: Turn away from your sins and abandon your idols. Turn your hearts and actions away from all your detestable practices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For any person from the house of Israel or any foreigner living among Israel who turns away from me, sets up idols in their heart, places the obstacle of their sin before their face, and then comes to a prophet to seek guidance from me—I, the LORD, will respond to them directly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will turn my attention against that person and make them an example and a byword; I will remove them from among my people. Then you will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a prophet is deceived and speaks a false message, it is I, the LORD, who have allowed that deception. I will then stretch out my hand against him and remove him from among my people Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will bear the consequences of their guilt: the punishment of the prophet will be the same as the punishment of the one who consults him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that the people of Israel will no longer stray away from me, nor defile themselves with all their sins. Instead, they will be my people, and I will be their God, declares the Sovereign LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message of the LORD came to me once more, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, when the land commits sin against me by acting in great rebellion, I will stretch out my hand against it. I will cut off its supply of food and bring famine upon it, and I will destroy both people and animals from it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if these three men—Noah, Daniel, and Job—were present, they would save only themselves by their righteousness, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If I send dangerous wild animals through the land, and they ravage it, leaving it desolate so that no one can travel through because of these beasts:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if these three men were present in the land, as surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, they would not be able to save their sons or daughters. Only they themselves would be delivered, but the land would remain desolate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Or if I bring a sword against that land and declare, "Sword, sweep through the land," so that I destroy both people and animals from it:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if these three men were present in it, as surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, they would not be able to save their sons or daughters; only they themselves would be delivered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Or if I send a plague into that land and unleash my wrath upon it through bloodshed, destroying both people and animals from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if Noah, Daniel, and Job were present in it, as surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, they would not be able to save either their son or their daughter. They would only save their own lives because of their righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the Lord GOD says: How much more severe will it be when I unleash my four devastating judgments upon Jerusalem—the sword, famine, wild beasts, and plague—to destroy both people and animals within it?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet, look, a remnant will remain and be brought out—both sons and daughters. They will come out to you, and you will see their conduct and their actions. Then you will find comfort regarding the disaster I have brought upon Jerusalem, concerning all that I have done to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you observe their ways and their actions, they will bring you understanding and reassurance. Then you will recognize that I, the Lord GOD, have not acted without purpose in all that I have done concerning this, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>






</body></html>