<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 24</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sa6kuc.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:db8c61f3-35dc-f577-9c34-b0078ca49e32" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 24</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD revealed to me a vision: there were two baskets of figs placed before the temple of the LORD. This occurred after Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, had taken Jeconiah, the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, captive, along with the leaders of Judah, the craftsmen, and the metalworkers. He had brought them from Jerusalem to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One basket contained very good figs, like those that ripen early and are choice. The other basket held very bad figs, so spoiled that they were inedible.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD said to me, "What do you see, Jeremiah?" I replied, "Figs—the good figs, very good, and the bad figs, very bad, so bad that they cannot be eaten."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: Just as these figs are good, so too will I regard with favor those from Judah who have been taken captive, whom I have sent away from this place to the land of the Chaldeans for their own benefit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will watch over them with favor, and I will bring them back to this land. I will establish them and not tear them down; I will plant them firmly and not uproot them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will give them a heart to understand and know me, that I am the LORD. They will be my people, and I will be their God, for they will return to me with all their heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And like the bad figs, which are so rotten they cannot be eaten—yes, this is what the LORD says: In the same way, I will hand over Zedekiah, the king of Judah, along with his officials, the remnant of Jerusalem who remain in this land, and those who live in the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will hand them over to be uprooted and scattered among all the kingdoms of the earth, to their harm. They will become an object of disgrace, a byword, a subject of mockery, and a curse in every place where I banish them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring upon them the sword, famine, and plague, and they will be utterly destroyed from the land I gave to them and their ancestors.</span></p>






</body></html>