<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Amos Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sa7yjd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:deb8e9bd-cce0-37fe-75bd-c872b985b2fb" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Amos Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord GOD showed me this vision: There before me was a basket filled with ripe summer fruit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord asked, "Amos, what do you see?" I replied, "A basket of ripe summer fruit." Then the Lord said to me, "The time of judgment has come for my people Israel; I will no longer overlook their sins."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the joyful songs of the temple will turn into cries of mourning, declares the Lord GOD. Dead bodies will lie scattered everywhere, and they will be thrown out in silence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to this, you who exploit the needy and bring ruin to the poor of the land,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "When will the New Moon festival be over so we can sell grain, and when will the Sabbath end so we can offer wheat for sale? We will reduce the measure of grain, inflate the price, and tamper with the scales to cheat people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that we may purchase the poor with money and the needy for a pair of sandals, and even sell the worthless husks of the grain?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has made a solemn promise, invoking the greatness of Jacob, declaring, "I will never overlook or fail to remember any of their deeds."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Will not the land tremble because of this, and all who live in it mourn? It will rise up completely like a flood, and it will be swept away and overwhelmed, just as by the flood of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day, declares the Lord GOD, that I will make the sun set at midday and bring darkness over the earth in broad daylight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will transform your joyous festivals into times of mourning, and your songs of celebration into dirges of sorrow. I will clothe everyone in sackcloth, a symbol of deep grief, and cause every head to be shaved in mourning. The sorrow will be as profound as grieving for an only son, and the outcome will be a day of bitter anguish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for the time is coming, declares the Lord GOD, when I will bring a famine upon the land—not a famine of food or a thirst for water, but a famine of hearing the words of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will roam from one sea to another and from the north to the east, rushing back and forth in search of the word of the LORD, but they will not find it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the beautiful young women and the strong young men will grow weak from thirst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who make oaths by the idol of Samaria, declaring, "As surely as your god, O Dan, lives," or, "As surely as the way of Beersheba endures," will indeed fall and never rise again.</span></p>






</body></html>