<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Genesis Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sa8ctg.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:56370049-3a8b-3af2-0d75-e5ea39b64569" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Genesis Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened that as people began to increase in number across the earth, and daughters were born to them,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The divine beings saw that the daughters of humankind were beautiful, and they took as wives any of them they chose.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said, "My Spirit will not remain with humanity forever, for they are mortal. Nevertheless, their days will be limited to one hundred and twenty years."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those days, there were giants on the earth, and also afterward, when the sons of God had relations with the daughters of men, and they bore children to them. These children became the mighty men of old, renowned and celebrated figures.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And God observed that the wickedness of humanity had become widespread throughout the earth, and that every inclination of the thoughts of their hearts was consistently and entirely evil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD regretted that He had made humanity on the earth, and it deeply pained Him in His heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declared, "I will wipe out humanity, whom I have created, from the face of the earth—both humans and animals, the creeping creatures, and the birds of the sky—for I deeply regret that I made them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Noah found favor in the sight of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the account of Noah and his descendants: Noah was a righteous man, blameless among the people of his time, and he walked in close fellowship with God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Noah became the father of three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The earth had become corrupt in the sight of God, and it was filled with violence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God observed the earth and saw that it was thoroughly corrupted, for all living beings had perverted their ways upon the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And God said to Noah, "The time has come for the end of all living creatures, for they have filled the earth with violence. Because of them, I am going to destroy both them and the earth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Construct for yourself an ark out of gopher wood. You are to make compartments within the ark, and then coat it thoroughly, both inside and out, with pitch.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is how you are to construct it: The ark shall be 300 cubits in length, 50 cubits in width, and 30 cubits in height.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall construct a window for the ark, finishing it a cubit from the top. Place the entrance to the ark on its side, and build it with three levels: a lower deck, a middle deck, and an upper deck.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I myself am about to bring a great flood of water upon the earth to destroy all living creatures that have the breath of life in them. Everything on the earth will perish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall enter the ark—you, your sons, your wife, and your sons’ wives along with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to bring two of every kind of living creature, both male and female, into the ark to keep them alive with you—every kind of animal and bird, every kind of creature that moves on the ground. This will ensure their survival alongside you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning birds according to their kinds, livestock according to their kinds, and every creature that moves along the ground according to its kind—two of every type shall come to you so that they may be kept alive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gather for yourself all kinds of food that are eaten, and store it for your use. It will serve as food for you and for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Noah did exactly as God had instructed him; he carried out everything precisely as God had commanded.</span></p>






</body></html>