<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Peter Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sacocs.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ef92c158-1f5b-dcd7-4634-e96f60f91a4c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Peter Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since Christ suffered in his physical body for our sake, you too should prepare yourselves with the same resolve, because whoever has suffered in the flesh has turned away from sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He should no longer spend the remaining time of his earthly life pursuing human desires, but instead live in accordance with the will of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The time we have already spent in our past lives should be enough for us to have carried out the desires of the Gentiles, when we lived in unrestrained immorality, indulging in lustful passions, excessive drinking, wild parties, drunken feasts, and detestable idol worship.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are surprised that you do not join them in the same reckless and wild behavior, and they insult you because of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who will give an account to the one who is prepared to judge the living and the dead?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this reason, the gospel was proclaimed even to those who have died, so that they might be judged in the flesh as humans are, but live in the spirit according to God’s will.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The culmination of all things is near. Therefore, maintain self-control and be alert, devoting yourselves to prayer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Above all, maintain a deep and earnest love for one another, because love has the power to cover over a multitude of sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Show hospitality to one another without complaining or reluctance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each person has received a gift; use it to serve one another, as faithful stewards of the diverse and abundant grace of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone speaks, let them speak as one delivering the message of God; if anyone serves, let them do so with the strength that God provides, so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To Him belong all praise and eternal dominion, forever and ever. Amen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Dear friends, do not be surprised or bewildered by the intense trials you are enduring, as if something unusual or unexpected were happening to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But be glad, because you share in the sufferings of Christ, so that when his glory is revealed, you may also rejoice with overwhelming joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you are insulted because of your association with Christ, consider yourselves blessed, for the glorious Spirit of God rests upon you. While others may speak evil of Him, you bring Him honor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, let none of you endure suffering as a murderer, a thief, a wrongdoer, or as someone who meddles in the affairs of others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone suffers because they are a Christian, they should not feel ashamed, but instead honor God because of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The time has now come for judgment to begin with the household of God. And if it starts with us first, what will be the outcome for those who refuse to obey the gospel of God?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If even the righteous are barely saved, where will the ungodly and the sinner stand?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let those who endure suffering in accordance with God’s will entrust their lives to Him, their faithful Creator, while continuing to do what is good.</span></p>






</body></html>