<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Daniel Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sahcio.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b89b70d7-0b23-0246-ae89-ecda7c671c38" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Daniel Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nebuchadnezzar the king, to all peoples, nations, and languages living throughout the earth: May your peace be abundantly increased.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I considered it right to declare the signs and wonders that the Most High God has performed on my behalf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How extraordinary are His signs! How powerful are His wonders! His kingdom is eternal, and His rule endures through all generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at peace in my home and thriving in my palace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I had a dream that filled me with fear, and the thoughts that came to me as I lay on my bed, along with the visions in my mind, deeply troubled me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I issued a decree to summon all the wise men of Babylon before me, so that they might reveal to me the meaning of the dream.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the magicians, the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and the diviners came in, and I recounted the dream to them, but they could not reveal its meaning to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But finally, Daniel came before me—he who is called Belteshazzar, after the name of my god, and in whom resides the spirit of the holy gods. I recounted the dream to him, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Belteshazzar, chief of the magicians, since I know that the spirit of the holy gods dwells within you and no mystery is too difficult for you, explain to me the visions of my dream that I have seen, along with their interpretation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what I saw in the visions of my mind as I lay in bed: I looked, and there before me was a tree standing at the center of the earth, and its height was immense.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The tree grew and became strong, and its height reached up to the heavens, and its visibility extended to the farthest reaches of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaves of the tree were beautiful, and it bore abundant fruit, providing nourishment for all. The wild animals found shade beneath it, the birds of the sky made their homes in its branches, and every living creature was sustained by it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the visions that came to me as I lay on my bed, I saw a divine messenger, a holy being, descending from heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He called out with a loud voice and said, "Cut down the tree, chop off its branches, strip off its leaves, and scatter its fruit. Let the animals flee from beneath it, and the birds from its branches."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, leave the stump of its roots in the ground, bound with a band of iron and bronze, surrounded by the tender grass of the field. Let it be drenched with the dew of heaven, and let its lot be among the wild animals in the grass of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let his human heart be transformed, and let him be given the heart of a beast. Let seven periods of time pass over him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This decision is established by the decree of the watchers, and the verdict is declared by the word of the holy ones. This is so that the living may understand that the Most High is sovereign over the kingdoms of humanity, and He grants them to whomever He chooses, even appointing the lowliest of individuals to rule over them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, King Nebuchadnezzar, have seen this dream. Now, Belteshazzar, you must explain its meaning to me, because none of the wise men in my kingdom are able to reveal its interpretation. But you can, for the spirit of the holy gods resides within you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Daniel, who was also called Belteshazzar, was deeply troubled for a time, and his thoughts alarmed him. The king spoke and said, "Belteshazzar, do not let the dream or its interpretation trouble you." Belteshazzar replied, "My lord, may the dream be for those who oppose you, and its interpretation for your enemies."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The tree you saw, which grew and became strong, whose height reached to the heavens and was visible to the entire earth—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The tree had beautiful leaves and bore abundant fruit, providing food for all. Beneath its branches, the wild animals found shelter, and in its limbs, the birds of the sky made their nests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It is you, O king, who have grown and become mighty, for your greatness has increased and reaches to the heavens, and your rule extends to the ends of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king saw a divine messenger, a holy being, descending from heaven and declaring, "Cut down the tree and destroy it, but leave the stump of its roots in the ground, bound with a band of iron and bronze, surrounded by the tender grass of the field. Let it be drenched with the dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the wild animals of the field until seven periods of time have passed over him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the meaning, O king, and this is the decree of the Most High that has been issued concerning you, my lord the king:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be driven away from human society, and your dwelling will be among the wild animals of the field. You will be made to eat grass like cattle, and you will be drenched with the dew of heaven. Seven periods of time will pass over you, until you acknowledge that the Most High is sovereign over the kingdoms of humanity and gives them to anyone he chooses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And as for the command to leave the stump of the tree with its roots, your kingdom will be restored to you once you acknowledge that the heavens are sovereign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, O king, may my advice be pleasing to you: turn away from your sins by doing what is right, and from your wrongdoing by showing kindness to the oppressed. Perhaps then your peace and prosperity will be prolonged.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All these events happened to King Nebuchadnezzar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After twelve months had passed, he was walking in the royal palace of the kingdom of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king declared, "Is this not the magnificent Babylon that I have built as the royal residence by the strength of my power and for the glory of my majesty?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the words were still on the king's lips, a voice came from heaven, declaring, "King Nebuchadnezzar, this message is for you: Your kingdom has been taken from you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be driven away from human society, and your dwelling will be among the wild animals of the field. You will be made to eat grass like cattle, and seven periods of time will pass over you, until you come to understand that the Most High is sovereign over the kingdoms of humanity and gives them to anyone He chooses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that very moment, the prophecy was fulfilled concerning Nebuchadnezzar. He was driven away from human society and ate grass like an ox. His body was drenched with the dew of heaven until his hair grew as long as eagles' feathers and his nails became like birds' claws.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the end of that time, I, Nebuchadnezzar, raised my eyes toward heaven, and my reason was restored to me. I praised and honored the Most High, giving glory to the One who lives forever. His dominion is an eternal dominion, and His kingdom endures through all generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people of the earth are considered as nothing in comparison to Him. He acts according to His will both among the heavenly beings and the inhabitants of the earth. No one can hinder His hand or question Him by saying, "What are You doing?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that very moment, my sanity was restored to me. For the sake of my kingdom's glory, my honor and splendor returned to me. My advisors and nobles sought my counsel once again, and I was firmly reestablished in my kingdom. Even greater majesty and dignity were bestowed upon me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise, exalt, and honor the King of heaven, for all His works are true, and His ways are just. He is able to humble those who walk in pride.</span></p>






</body></html>