<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sahngs.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cafcac9f-cbec-7203-9dd6-520fc787e755" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jephthah the Gileadite was a courageous and mighty warrior. He was the son of a prostitute, and his father was Gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gilead’s wife bore him sons, and when her sons grew up, they drove Jephthah away, saying to him, “You will not inherit anything in our father’s household, because you are the son of another woman.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jephthah fled from his brothers and settled in the land of Tob. There, a group of reckless men gathered around him and became his companions, going out with him on his ventures.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As time went on, the Ammonites waged war against Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Ammonites waged war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to bring Jephthah back from the land of Tob.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to Jephthah, "Come and lead us as our commander, so that we can wage war against the Ammonites."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, "Did you not despise me and drive me out of my father’s house? Why have you come to me now, when you are in trouble?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, "This is why we have come back to you now—so that you may go with us and fight against the Ammonites, and become the leader over all the people of Gilead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, "If you bring me back to fight against the Ammonites and the Lord gives them over to me, will I then become your leader?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, "May the LORD be our witness that we will do exactly as you have said."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people appointed him as their leader and commander. Jephthah declared all his intentions before the LORD at Mizpah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the Ammonites, saying, "What is your grievance against me that you have come to attack me in my land?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of the Ammonites replied to Jephthah’s messengers, “Israel seized my land when they came up from Egypt, taking the territory from the Arnon River to the Jabbok River and as far as the Jordan. Now, therefore, return those lands peacefully.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jephthah sent messengers once more to the king of the Ammonites, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jephthah sent this message to the king of the Ammonites: "This is what Jephthah says: Israel did not seize the land of Moab or the land of the Ammonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Israel came out of Egypt and journeyed through the wilderness to the Red Sea, they eventually arrived at Kadesh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, "Please allow us to pass through your land." But the king of Edom refused to listen to their request. In the same way, they sent messengers to the king of Moab, but he also would not agree. So Israel remained in Kadesh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they journeyed through the wilderness, skirting around the land of Edom and the land of Moab. They traveled along the eastern side of Moab and camped on the far side of the Arnon River, but they did not enter the territory of Moab, for the Arnon River marked the boundary of Moab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Israel sent messengers to Sihon, the king of the Amorites who ruled in Heshbon, and said to him, "Please allow us to pass through your land on our way to our destination."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Sihon did not allow Israel to pass through his territory. Instead, he gathered all his people and encamped at Jahaz, where he engaged in battle against Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD, the God of Israel, handed over Sihon and all his people to the Israelites, and they defeated them. As a result, Israel took possession of all the land of the Amorites, who were the inhabitants of that region.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They took control of all the territories of the Amorites, from the Arnon River to the Jabbok River, and from the wilderness to the Jordan River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, the LORD, the God of Israel, has driven out the Amorites from before His people Israel. Should you, then, take possession of it?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Will you not take possession of what Chemosh, your god, has given you to possess? In the same way, whoever the LORD our God drives out before us, we will take possession of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, are you any better than Balak, the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever contend with Israel, or did he ever wage war against them?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While Israel lived in Heshbon and its surrounding villages, in Aroer and its surrounding villages, and in all the cities along the banks of the Arnon River for three hundred years, why did you not reclaim them during that time?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I have not sinned against you, but you are wronging me by waging war against me. May the LORD, the Judge, decide today between the people of Israel and the people of Ammon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the king of the Ammonites paid no attention to the message Jephthah sent him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Spirit of the LORD came powerfully upon Jephthah, and he traveled through Gilead and Manasseh, continuing on to Mizpeh in Gilead. From there, he advanced toward the territory of the Ammonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jephthah made a solemn promise to the LORD, saying, "If you will truly deliver the Ammonites into my hands,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then it shall be that whatever comes out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I return safely from the Ammonites, shall belong to the LORD, and I will offer it as a burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jephthah advanced against the Ammonites to engage them in battle, and the LORD gave them over into his hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He struck them down from Aroer all the way to Minnith, capturing twenty cities, and as far as the plain of the vineyards, inflicting a devastating defeat. In this way, the Ammonites were subdued before the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jephthah arrived at Mizpah and returned to his home. There, his daughter came out to greet him, playing tambourines and dancing. She was his only child; he had no other sons or daughters besides her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he saw her, he tore his clothes in distress and cried out, "Oh, my daughter! You have brought me to a place of great despair, and you have become a source of deep trouble for me. For I have made a solemn vow to the LORD, and I cannot take it back."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She said to him, "My father, since you have made a vow to the LORD, do to me as you have promised, for the LORD has granted you vengeance against your enemies, the Ammonites."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She said to her father, "Please grant me this request: allow me two months to go into the mountains and mourn my virginity, I and my companions."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Go." So he allowed her to leave for two months. She departed with her companions and mourned her virginity in the mountains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the end of two months, she returned to her father, and he fulfilled the vow he had made concerning her. She had never been with a man. This became a tradition in Israel:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The daughters of Israel would go each year to mourn the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite for four days annually.</span></p>






</body></html>