<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 25</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\samqz8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ee8cc3bf-6f2f-42ab-9880-d0085c8ee679" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 25</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and tell them: When you enter the land that I am giving to you, the land itself must observe a sabbath rest dedicated to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For six years you shall plant your fields, and for six years you shall tend your vineyard and gather its produce.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the seventh year, the land is to have a complete rest, a sabbath dedicated to the LORD. You must not plant your fields or prune your vineyards during that year.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not harvest the crops that grow on their own from your fields, nor gather the grapes from your untended vines, because this is a year of rest for the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The produce of the land during its Sabbath rest shall serve as food for you—for yourself, your male and female servants, your hired workers, and the foreign residents living among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And for your livestock and the wild animals in your land, all the produce of the land will serve as their food.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to count seven cycles of sabbatical years for yourself—seven times seven years—so that the period of these seven sabbatical cycles will amount to forty-nine years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall have the trumpet of the Jubilee sounded on the tenth day of the seventh month. On the Day of Atonement, you are to sound the trumpet throughout all your land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to consecrate the fiftieth year and declare freedom throughout the land for all its inhabitants. It shall be a Jubilee for you, and each of you shall return to your own property, and each of you shall return to your family.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fiftieth year shall be a Jubilee for you: you must not sow seed, nor reap what grows on its own, nor gather the grapes from your untended vines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is the Year of Jubilee; it shall be sacred to you. You may eat what the field produces directly from the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the year of this Jubilee, each person shall return to their own property.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you sell anything to your neighbor or buy anything from your neighbor, you must not take advantage of each other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall purchase land from your neighbor based on the number of years remaining until the next Jubilee, and he shall sell it to you according to the number of years the land can produce crops.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Based on the number of years remaining, you shall increase its price, and based on the fewness of years, you shall reduce its price; for it is according to the number of harvests that he is selling to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must not take advantage of one another, but you shall revere your God, for I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must follow my decrees, uphold my laws, and carry them out. If you do this, you will live securely in the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land will produce its crops abundantly, and you will eat until you are satisfied, living there in security and peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if you ask, "What will we eat in the seventh year, since we will not sow or harvest our crops?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I will decree my blessing upon you in the sixth year, and it will produce enough harvest to sustain you for three years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall plant your fields in the eighth year, but you will continue to eat from the previous harvest until the ninth year. When the new crops come in, you may still eat from the old store of produce.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land must not be sold permanently, because the land belongs to me; for you are foreigners and temporary residents living with me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In all the land that you possess, you must provide the right of redemption for the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If your brother becomes poor and sells part of his property, and if a close relative comes to buy it back, then that relative shall redeem what his brother has sold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the man has no relative to redeem it, but he himself is able to redeem it,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he must calculate the number of years since the sale and return the excess payment to the man to whom he sold it, so that the original owner may reclaim his property.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if he is unable to repay him, then the property that was sold shall remain in the possession of the buyer until the Year of Jubilee. In the Jubilee year, it shall be released, and the property shall return to its original owner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone sells a house located within a walled city, they have the right to buy it back within a full year after the sale. They may redeem it at any time during that entire year.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the house is not bought back within a full year, then the house located within the walled city will permanently belong to the one who purchased it, and it will remain in their family for generations. It will not revert to the original owner in the Year of Jubilee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the houses in villages that are not surrounded by walls will be treated like open fields in the countryside. They may be bought back, and they will revert to their original owners in the Year of Jubilee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Levites may reclaim their cities and the houses within those cities at any time, as these are their permanent possession.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone buys a house from the Levites, the house that was sold and the city of their inheritance must be returned in the Year of Jubilee, because the houses in the cities of the Levites are their permanent possession among the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the open land surrounding their cities must not be sold, for it is their permanent inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If your brother becomes poor and struggles in his circumstances, you must support him, whether he is a native or a foreigner living among you, so that he may continue to live alongside you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not charge him interest or demand any profit from him, but instead, show reverence for your God, so that your fellow Israelite may continue to live alongside you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not lend him your money with interest, nor provide him your food for profit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan and to be your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If your fellow Israelite who lives near you becomes poor and is sold to you, you must not force them to serve as a slave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But as a hired worker or a temporary resident, he shall remain with you and serve you until the Year of Jubilee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, he will leave you, both he and his children with him, and he will return to his own family and to the inheritance of his ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they are my servants, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt; they must not be sold as slaves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not dominate him harshly, but you shall revere your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You may acquire male and female servants from the surrounding nations; from them you may purchase male and female slaves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, concerning the foreign residents living among you, you may purchase slaves from them and from their families who are with you, those born in your land. They will become your property.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall pass them on as an inheritance to your children after you, so that they may possess them as a permanent possession. They may remain as your servants for life. However, you must not rule harshly over your fellow Israelites, your brothers and sisters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a foreigner or temporary resident living among you becomes wealthy, and your fellow Israelite who lives near them becomes poor and sells themselves to that foreigner or temporary resident, or to a member of the foreigner’s family, then the following applies:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he has been sold, he may still be bought back; one of his relatives may redeem him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If he has an uncle, or his uncle’s son, they may buy back his freedom. Alternatively, any close relative from his family may redeem him. If he is able to gather the means, he may also buy back his own freedom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The buyer must calculate the cost with the servant based on the number of years from the time he was sold until the Year of Jubilee. The price of his sale will be determined according to the years of service, as if he were a hired worker.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If many years still remain until the Jubilee, he must repay the amount used to purchase his freedom, calculated in proportion to the remaining years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If only a few years remain until the Year of Jubilee, he must calculate the price in proportion to those years and repay the amount for his redemption accordingly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall remain with him like a hired worker year by year, and the master shall not treat him harshly in your presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If he is not redeemed within those years, then he and his children with him shall be released in the Year of Jubilee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Israel are my servants; they are the servants I brought out of the land of Egypt. I am the LORD your God.</span></p>






</body></html>