<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sanq91.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a72ec589-8390-060a-63a3-c6d6cadf02c3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, not long afterward, during the time of the wheat harvest, Samson went to visit his wife, bringing a young goat as a gift. He said, "I wish to go to my wife in her room." But her father refused to let him enter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her father said, "I truly believed that you completely despised her, so I gave her to your companion. Is not her younger sister more beautiful than she? Please, take her instead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson said regarding them, "Now I will be more justified than the Philistines, even though I bring harm upon them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson went out and captured three hundred foxes. He took torches, tied the foxes tail to tail, and fastened a torch between each pair of tails.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After setting the torches ablaze, he released them into the Philistines' standing grain, causing the fire to consume not only the stacked sheaves but also the standing grain, along with the vineyards and olive groves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Philistines demanded, "Who is responsible for this?" They were told, "Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, did this because the Timnite took Samson's wife and gave her to another man." In response, the Philistines went up and burned both the woman and her father to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson said to them, "Even though you have done this, I will still take my revenge on you, and only then will I stop."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He struck them down with a devastating blow, inflicting heavy casualties. Afterward, he went down and settled in the stronghold at the top of the rock of Etam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Philistines advanced and set up camp in Judah, spreading out their forces in Lehi.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Judah asked, "Why have you come to attack us?" They replied, "We have come to capture Samson, to do to him what he has done to us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then three thousand men from Judah went up to the top of the rock at Etam and said to Samson, “Don’t you realize that the Philistines rule over us? What have you done to us?” He replied, “I have only done to them what they did to me.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to him, "We have come to restrain you, so that we may hand you over to the Philistines." Samson replied, "Promise me that you will not attack me yourselves."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to him, "No, we will not kill you, but we will tie you up securely and hand you over to them." So they bound him with two new ropes and brought him up from the rocky place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Samson arrived at Lehi, the Philistines raised a loud shout against him. Then the Spirit of the LORD powerfully came upon him, and the ropes that bound his arms became like flax fibers burned by fire, so that the bonds fell from his hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he discovered a fresh donkey's jawbone, reached out his hand, took it, and struck down a thousand men with it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson declared, "With the jawbone of a donkey, I have piled them in heaps upon heaps. With the jawbone of a donkey, I have killed a thousand men."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he finished speaking, he threw the jawbone from his hand and named that place Ramath-lehi.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was extremely thirsty and cried out to the LORD, saying, “You have granted this great victory through your servant. But now, must I die of thirst and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But God split open a hollow place in the jawbone, and water came out from it. When Samson drank, his strength returned, and he was revived. Therefore, he named that place En-hakkore, which remains in Lehi to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he led and governed Israel for twenty years during the time when the Philistines held power.</span></p>






</body></html>