<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Hosea Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sany3t.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:bcc13c90-a488-58e1-bb23-11a1c7ad7783" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Hosea Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to the word of the LORD, you people of Israel: for the LORD has a case against those who live in the land, because there is no faithfulness, no steadfast love, and no knowledge of God in the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By making false oaths, lying, murdering, stealing, and committing adultery, they act without restraint, and one act of violence follows another.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the land will grieve, and all who live in it will waste away—along with the wild animals, the birds of the sky, and even the fish of the sea—they will all perish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not let anyone contend or rebuke another, for your people are like those who argue with the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you will fall during the day, and the prophet will also fall with you during the night. I will bring destruction upon your mother.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My people are being destroyed because they lack understanding. Since you have rejected knowledge, I will also reject you from serving as my priest. Because you have forgotten the law of your God, I will also forget your children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they grew in number, they also increased their sin against me; therefore, I will turn their honor into disgrace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They consume the offerings meant to atone for the sins of my people, and they eagerly desire their wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people and the priests will be alike, for I will hold them both accountable for their actions and repay them according to their deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will eat, but not be satisfied; they will engage in promiscuity, yet not prosper—because they have ceased to pay attention to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prostitution, wine, and strong drink corrupt the mind and lead one astray.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My people seek guidance from their wooden idols, and their divining rods give them answers. For a spirit of unfaithfulness has led them astray, and they have turned away from their God to pursue falsehood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They offer sacrifices on the mountaintops and burn incense on the hills, beneath oak, poplar, and terebinth trees, because their shade is pleasant. As a result, your daughters will engage in promiscuity, and your brides will commit adultery.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will not punish your daughters when they engage in prostitution, nor your wives when they commit adultery, for the men themselves consort with prostitutes and offer sacrifices with shrine prostitutes. As a result, the people who lack understanding will stumble and fall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even though you, Israel, act unfaithfully, do not let Judah fall into sin. Do not go to Gilgal or journey to Beth-aven, and do not swear, "As surely as the LORD lives."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Israel has turned away like a stubborn heifer; now the Lord will let them wander like a lamb in an open field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ephraim is deeply attached to idols; leave him to his ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their wine has turned sour; they have persistently engaged in immoral acts. Her leaders are deeply devoted to shameful practices—they eagerly embrace disgrace. Give them what they deserve.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wind has carried her away in its force, and they will be disgraced because of their offerings.</span></p>






</body></html>