<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sasf1v.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:616c8bd0-a658-d001-70cc-2d2f8cdd7b45" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the entire community of the Israelites arrived in the wilderness of Zin during the first month, and the people settled in Kadesh. It was there that Miriam died and was buried.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The community had no water, so they assembled together to confront Moses and Aaron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people complained against Moses and said, "If only we had died when our fellow Israelites perished before the Lord!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why have you brought the assembly of the LORD into this wilderness, only for us and our livestock to perish here?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why have you brought us out of Egypt to lead us into this wretched place? It is not a land suitable for planting crops, nor does it have fig trees, grapevines, or pomegranates. There isn’t even any water for us to drink!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Aaron left the gathering of the people and went to the entrance of the tent of meeting. There, they bowed down with their faces to the ground, and the glorious presence of the LORD appeared to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take the staff, and assemble the community, you and your brother Aaron. Speak to the rock in their presence, and it will pour out its water. You will bring water out of the rock for them, providing drink for the congregation and their livestock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses took the staff from the presence of the LORD, just as He had commanded him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Aaron assembled the entire community in front of the rock, and Moses said to them, "Listen now, you who are defiant and rebellious! Must we bring water out of this rock for you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses raised his hand and struck the rock twice with his staff. Water gushed out in abundance, and the community drank, as did their livestock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, "Because you did not trust in me enough to honor me as holy in the sight of the Israelites, you will not lead this assembly into the land I have given them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the water of Meribah, where the Israelites quarreled with the LORD, and He demonstrated His holiness among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom with this message: "This is what your brother Israel says: You are aware of all the hardships we have endured.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our ancestors went down to Egypt, and we lived there for many years. The Egyptians oppressed us and our forefathers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When we cried out to the LORD, He listened to our plea and sent an angel to lead us out of Egypt. Now, here we are in Kadesh, a town located at the edge of your territory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Please allow us to pass through your land. We promise not to go through your fields or vineyards, nor will we drink water from your wells. We will stay on the main road, not turning to the right or the left, until we have traveled beyond your territory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Edom replied to him, "You shall not pass through my territory, or I will come out to confront you with armed force."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites said to him, "We will travel along the main road. If I or my livestock drink any of your water, I will pay for it. I ask only to pass through on foot, without doing anything else."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "You shall not pass through." Then Edom came out to confront him with a large force and a strong army.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, Edom refused to allow Israel to pass through its territory, so Israel turned away from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire community of Israel set out from Kadesh and traveled to Mount Hor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron at Mount Hor, near the border of the land of Edom, and said:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron will join his ancestors in death, for he will not enter the land I have given to the Israelites. This is because you both defied my command at the waters of Meribah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take Aaron and his son Eleazar, and bring them up to Mount Hor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then remove Aaron's garments and place them on his son Eleazar. Aaron will be gathered to his ancestors and will die there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses did exactly as the LORD had instructed him. In the presence of the entire assembly, they ascended Mount Hor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses removed Aaron's priestly garments and placed them on Eleazar, Aaron's son. Then Aaron died there at the summit of the mountain. Afterward, Moses and Eleazar descended from the mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the entire community saw that Aaron had died, they mourned for him for thirty days—the whole house of Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>