<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 28</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sayrgd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ace93fd1-72c7-79d7-b678-b75068c9c48d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 28</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for the proud crown of Ephraim, for those drunkards whose splendor is like a wilting flower! They sit atop the fertile valleys, indulging in wine and excess. Their glorious beauty, once so vibrant, is now fading away, just like a flower that withers on the stem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the Lord has a powerful and mighty agent, who will come like a hailstorm and a devastating tempest, like a flood of overwhelming waters. With His hand, He will bring down to the earth all that stands in His way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim will be trampled underfoot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The splendid beauty that crowns the fertile valley will wither like a fading flower, like the early fruit that ripens before summer. When someone sees it, they will take it in their hand and consume it while it is still fresh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the LORD Almighty will be a glorious crown and a beautiful diadem for the remnant of his people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He will grant a spirit of discernment to the one who presides in judgment, and He will provide courage to those who drive back the battle to the enemy's gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they too have gone astray because of wine and have become confused due to strong drink. Both the priest and the prophet have stumbled because of intoxicating drink; they are overwhelmed by wine, led astray by strong drink. They make mistakes in their visions and falter in their judgments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every table is covered with vomit and filth, leaving no clean space.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To whom will he impart knowledge, and to whom will he explain his teachings? To those who have moved beyond infancy, who are no longer dependent on milk, but are ready for solid food.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instruction must follow instruction, rule upon rule; teaching upon teaching, lesson upon lesson; a little here, a little there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For with faltering speech and in a foreign language, He will address this people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To them He said, "This is the place of rest where you may give rest to the weary; this is the place of renewal." Yet they refused to listen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the word of the LORD became for them like a repetitive instruction, rule upon rule, rule upon rule; teaching upon teaching, teaching upon teaching; a little here, a little there—so that they might go forward, only to stumble backward, be broken, ensnared, and captured.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen to the word of the LORD, you arrogant and mocking men, who govern this people dwelling in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you have declared, "We have made a pact with death, and with the grave we have reached an agreement; when the overwhelming disaster passes through, it will not touch us, for we have taken lies as our shelter and hidden ourselves in deceit."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: "Behold, I am placing in Zion a foundation stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone, a secure foundation. Whoever believes in it will not be shaken or put to flight." </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will set justice as the measuring line and righteousness as the plumb line. Hail will sweep away the refuge of lies, and floodwaters will overwhelm the hiding place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your pact with death will be nullified, and your alliance with the grave will not endure. When the overwhelming judgment sweeps through, you will be crushed beneath its force.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the moment it begins, it will seize you; day after day, night after night, it will sweep through. The only outcome will be sheer terror as you grasp the meaning of the message.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bed is too short for a person to stretch out on, and the blanket too narrow to wrap oneself in.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD will rise up as He did at Mount Perazim; He will be stirred to anger as He was in the valley of Gibeon, in order to accomplish His work—His extraordinary work—and to carry out His deed—His unusual deed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, do not mock, or your punishment will become even more severe; for I have heard from the Lord GOD of hosts a decree of destruction, firmly decided against the whole earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen closely and pay attention to my words; give heed and hear what I have to say.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Does the farmer plow the fields endlessly without planting? Does he continually break up and turn over the soil?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he has prepared the ground, does he not then sow the fennel, scatter the cumin, plant the finest wheat, set the barley in its designated place, and sow the rye where it belongs?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For his God guides him with wisdom and instructs him in understanding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the black cumin is not threshed with a heavy threshing sledge, nor is a cartwheel rolled over the cumin; instead, the black cumin is gently beaten out with a stick, and the cumin with a rod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Grain for bread is crushed, but the farmer does not endlessly thresh it, nor does he crush it completely with the wheels of his cart or trample it with his horses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This also comes from the LORD of hosts, who is extraordinary in wisdom and magnificent in His actions.</span></p>






</body></html>