<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Galatians Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sb0q4v.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:640096a0-2344-7e09-05ff-240c50f74ed0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Galatians Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Fourteen years later, I went up to Jerusalem again, this time accompanied by Barnabas, and I also brought Titus with me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I went up [to Jerusalem] in response to a divine revelation and presented to them the gospel that I proclaim among the Gentiles. However, I did so privately, meeting with those who were highly regarded, to ensure that my efforts—past or present—would not prove to be in vain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Titus, who was with me and was a Greek, was not forced to undergo circumcision.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This happened because of false believers who secretly infiltrated our ranks. They slipped in to spy on the freedom we have in Christ Jesus, intending to enslave us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We did not yield or submit to them, not even for a moment, so that the truth of the gospel might remain firmly established among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now concerning those who appeared to be influential—whatever they were makes no difference to me, for God does not show favoritism—those who seemed to be leaders contributed nothing to my understanding or mission.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the contrary, when they recognized that the responsibility to proclaim the gospel to the Gentiles had been entrusted to me, just as the gospel to the Jews had been entrusted to Peter,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the one who powerfully worked through Peter in his ministry to the circumcised also worked mightily through me in my ministry to the Gentiles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When James, Cephas, and John, who were recognized as leaders, understood the grace that had been given to me, they extended to me and Barnabas the right hand of partnership. They agreed that we should go to the Gentiles, while they would focus on reaching the circumcised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They only asked that we should continue to remember the poor—a task I was already eager to fulfill.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Peter came to Antioch, I confronted him directly, because he was clearly in the wrong.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before certain individuals arrived from James, Peter had been eating with the Gentiles. However, when they came, he withdrew and distanced himself, fearing those who were of the circumcision party.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The other Jews also joined him in this hypocrisy, to the extent that even Barnabas was led astray by their pretense.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when I observed that they were not conducting themselves in line with the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter in front of everyone, "If you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile and not in the manner of the Jews, why are you forcing the Gentiles to adopt Jewish customs?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We who are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners...</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Understanding that a person is not made right with God by following the works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ, even we have placed our trust in Christ Jesus, so that we might be made right with God through faith in Christ and not by the works of the law. For no one will be justified by the works of the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if, in our effort to be made right with God through Christ, we ourselves are found to be sinners, does that mean Christ promotes sin? Certainly not!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if I rebuild what I once tore down, I prove myself to be a wrongdoer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For through the law, I have died to the law, so that I might live for God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have been crucified with Christ, and yet I live—though it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. The life I now live in this physical body, I live by trusting in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself up for me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness could be achieved through the law, then Christ died for nothing.</span></p>






</body></html>