<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sb6nsd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:53008db4-9f06-d129-9dad-e6d990b623e9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They say, "If a man divorces his wife and she leaves him to become another man’s, would he ever return to her again? Would not such a land be utterly defiled?" But you have prostituted yourself with many lovers; yet return to me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look up to the high places and see—where have you not been defiled? You have waited for lovers along the roads, like a nomad in the desert. You have defiled the land with your unfaithfulness and your wickedness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the rains have been withheld, and there has been no spring rain. Yet you have the brazenness of a prostitute; you refuse to feel any shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Will you not from this moment cry out to me, "My Father, you are the one who guided me in my youth"?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Will He hold onto His anger forever? Will He continue to harbor it endlessly? Look, you have spoken and carried out evil deeds as much as you were able.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD also said to me during the reign of King Josiah, "Have you seen what unfaithful Israel has done? She has gone up to every high hill and beneath every flourishing tree, and there she has acted like a prostitute."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I said, after she had done all these things, "Return to me." But she did not return. And her unfaithful sister Judah saw it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I observed that although I had sent away unfaithful Israel and given her a certificate of divorce because of all the ways she committed adultery, her deceitful sister Judah showed no fear. Instead, she also went and engaged in the same immoral behavior.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of her reckless promiscuity, she polluted the land and engaged in idolatry, worshiping stones and wooden idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Despite all this, her unfaithful sister Judah has not returned to me with her whole heart, but only in pretense, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "Israel, though she has turned away, has proven herself more righteous than Judah, who has acted with treachery."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and declare these words toward the north, and say: "Turn back, you unfaithful Israel, says the LORD. I will not unleash my anger upon you, for I am merciful, declares the LORD, and I will not remain angry forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Simply admit your guilt—that you have rebelled against the LORD your God. You have pursued your own desires and wandered after foreign gods under every flourishing tree, refusing to listen to my voice, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Return, you wayward children, says the LORD, for I am bound to you in covenant. I will gather you, one from a city and two from a family, and I will bring you back to Zion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will appoint shepherds for you who align with my will, and they will guide you with wisdom and insight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen, when you have become numerous and prosperous in the land, in those days," declares the LORD, "people will no longer speak of the ark of the covenant of the LORD. It will no longer come to mind, nor will they remember it, nor will they seek it out, nor will it be made again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, Jerusalem will be called the throne of the LORD, and all the nations will gather there in honor of the LORD’s name, coming to Jerusalem. They will no longer follow the stubborn desires of their own evil hearts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those days, the people of Judah will join with the people of Israel, and together they will return from the land of the north to the land I gave as an inheritance to your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I thought, "How can I include you among my children and give you a beautiful land, a splendid inheritance, the finest possession among the nations?" And I said, "You will call me 'My Father,' and you will not turn away from me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, just as a wife betrays and abandons her husband, so you, O house of Israel, have acted treacherously toward me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A voice was heard on the heights, the sound of weeping and pleading from the people of Israel, because they have turned away from the right path and have forgotten the LORD their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Turn back, you wayward children, and I will restore you from your wandering. Look, we are coming to you, for you are the LORD our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, it is futile to place hope for deliverance in the hills or in the vast array of mountains. Truly, the salvation of Israel is found only in the LORD our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shame has consumed the hard work of our ancestors from our earliest days—their flocks and herds, their sons and daughters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We are overwhelmed with shame, and disgrace covers us, for we have sinned against the LORD our God—both we and our ancestors—from our earliest days until now. We have failed to heed the voice of the LORD our God.</span></p>






</body></html>