<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 29</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sb8w7y.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:85402aa1-71ad-f890-465e-74ae1dd7dee2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 29</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the first day of the seventh month, you are to hold a sacred assembly. You must not do any ordinary work, for it is a day of trumpet blasts, set apart for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present a burnt offering as a pleasing aroma to the LORD: one young bull, one ram, and seven one-year-old lambs, all without defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their grain offering shall consist of fine flour mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for a bull, and two-tenths of an ephah for a ram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And for each lamb, one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour shall be offered, for all seven lambs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And one male goat as a sin offering, to provide atonement for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In addition to the monthly burnt offering, along with its grain offering, and the regular daily burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offerings, all presented according to the prescribed manner, as a pleasing aroma—a fire offering to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the tenth day of this seventh month, you are to hold a sacred assembly. You must humble yourselves and refrain from doing any work on that day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to present a burnt offering to the LORD as a pleasing aroma: one young bull, one ram, and seven male lambs in their first year. They must be without defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The grain offering accompanying their sacrifice must consist of fine flour mixed with olive oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each bull, and two-tenths of an ephah for each ram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For each lamb, a separate tenth of an ephah of flour is to be offered, and this applies to all seven lambs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the sin offering for atonement, the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and their accompanying drink offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fifteenth day of the seventh month, you shall hold a sacred assembly; you must not do any ordinary work, and you shall celebrate a festival to the LORD for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, as a pleasing aroma to the LORD: thirteen young bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old lambs, all without any defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their grain offering shall consist of fine flour mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each of the thirteen bulls, and two-tenths of an ephah for each of the two rams.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And for each of the fourteen lambs, a separate tenth portion of flour shall be offered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering, along with its grain offering and drink offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the second day, you shall present twelve young bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old lambs without any defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the lambs shall correspond to their number, following the prescribed standard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering, along with its grain offering and their drink offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the third day, present eleven bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old lambs, all without defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the lambs shall correspond to their number, following the prescribed standard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And one goat is to be offered as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering, along with its grain offering and its drink offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fourth day, they offered ten young bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old lambs, all without any defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the lambs shall be provided in proportion to their number, following the prescribed procedure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering, along with its grain offering and drink offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fifth day, present nine young bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old lambs, all without defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the lambs shall correspond to their number, following the prescribed standard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And one goat is to be offered as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering, along with its grain offering and drink offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the sixth day, they were to offer eight bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old lambs, all without any defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The grain offering and drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the lambs shall be provided in proportion to their number, following the prescribed standard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And one goat is to be offered as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering, along with its grain offering and drink offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day, offer seven bulls, two rams, and fourteen one-year-old lambs, all without any defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The grain offering and drink offerings for the bulls, the rams, and the lambs shall be prepared in proportion to their number, following the prescribed procedure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And one goat is to be offered as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering, along with its grain offering and drink offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eighth day, you shall hold a sacred gathering. You must not engage in any ordinary labor on that day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, as a pleasing aroma to the LORD: one young bull, one ram, and seven male lambs in their first year, all without defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bull, the ram, and the lambs shall correspond to their number, following the prescribed procedure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And one goat is to be offered as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering, along with its grain offering and its drink offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to present these offerings to the LORD during your appointed festivals, in addition to your vows and your voluntary gifts, as well as your burnt offerings, grain offerings, drink offerings, and fellowship offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses conveyed to the Israelites everything that the LORD had commanded him to say.</span></p>






</body></html>