<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Amos Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sb8xd0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9a3e48dd-9902-19ce-bc37-de94766b5720" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Amos Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for those who feel secure in Zion, who trust in the mountain of Samaria—those who are considered the leaders of the nations, to whom the people of Israel turn!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go to Calneh and observe; then proceed to the great city of Hamath, and afterward go down to Gath of the Philistines. Are these kingdoms superior to yours? Is their territory larger than your own?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You who push the day of disaster far into the future, yet bring the throne of violence ever closer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who lounge on beds adorned with ivory and stretch out lazily on their couches, who feast on lambs from the flock and calves from the stall—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sing to the sound of the harp and devise for themselves musical instruments, just as David did.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They indulge in wine, drinking from lavish bowls, and anoint themselves with the finest oils, yet they show no concern for the suffering of Joseph.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, they will now be taken into exile among the first to be carried away, and the feasting of those who indulged in luxury will come to an end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord GOD has sworn by Himself—declares the LORD, the God of hosts—"I detest the pride of Jacob and despise his fortresses. Therefore, I will hand over the city and everything in it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen that if there are ten men remaining in a single house, they will all die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man’s relative or the one responsible for his burial will carry him out to remove the bones from the house. He will ask someone standing nearby, “Is there anyone else with you?” And that person will reply, “No.” Then he will say, “Be silent, for we must not invoke the name of the LORD.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for the LORD has issued a command: He will strike the grand house, causing it to collapse into ruins, and the small house, splitting it with cracks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Can horses run on rocky cliffs? Can one plow the rocky ground with oxen? Yet you have turned justice into poison and the fruit of righteousness into bitter hemlock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You who take pride in worthless things, who boast, "Have we not gained power by our own strength?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, I will bring a nation against you, O house of Israel, declares the LORD, the God of all armies. They will oppress you from the northern border of Hamath all the way to the river of the wilderness in the south.</span></p>






</body></html>