<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sb9ozl.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:782a8262-dbe6-65a4-26a0-1527f8903af3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Jehoshaphat possessed great wealth and honor in abundance, and he formed a marriage alliance with Ahab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After some years, he went down to visit Ahab in Samaria. Ahab slaughtered a great number of sheep and cattle for him and for the people who accompanied him, and then urged him to join in an attack on Ramoth-gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahab, the king of Israel, asked Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, "Will you go with me to Ramoth-gilead?" Jehoshaphat replied, "I am as you are, and my people are as your people. We will join you in the battle."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, "Please, seek the word of the LORD today."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the king of Israel assembled four hundred prophets and asked them, “Should we go to battle against Ramoth-gilead, or should I hold back?” They replied, “Go up, for God will deliver it into the king’s hand.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jehoshaphat asked, "Is there not another prophet of the LORD here, so that we may seek guidance from him?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "There is still one man through whom we can seek guidance from the LORD, but I despise him because he never prophesies anything good about me—only disaster. His name is Micaiah, the son of Imla." Jehoshaphat replied, "The king should not speak like that."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel summoned one of his officials and said, "Bring Micaiah, the son of Imla, here at once."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, each sat on his throne, dressed in their royal robes, at an open area by the entrance to the gate of Samaria. All the prophets were prophesying before them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zedekiah, the son of Chenaanah, had made iron horns and declared, "This is what the LORD says: With these you will gore the Syrians until they are completely destroyed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the prophets spoke in agreement, declaring, "Go up to Ramoth-gilead, and you will succeed, for the LORD will deliver it into the hand of the king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The messenger who went to summon Micaiah said to him, "Listen, all the prophets are unanimously declaring favorable things to the king. So, I urge you, let your words align with theirs and speak favorably as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Micaiah replied, "As surely as the LORD lives, I will speak only what my God tells me to say."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Micaiah arrived before the king, the king asked him, "Micaiah, should we go to war against Ramoth-gilead, or should I hold back?" Micaiah replied, "Go ahead and attack; you will succeed, and the enemy will be handed over to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to him, "How many times must I urge you to swear by the LORD that you will tell me nothing but the truth?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said, "I saw all of Israel scattered across the mountains, like sheep without a shepherd. And the LORD said, 'These people have no leader; let each one return to his home in peace.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "Didn’t I warn you that he would never prophesy anything good about me, but only disaster?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more he said, "Therefore, listen to the word of the LORD: I saw the LORD seated on His throne, with all the heavenly assembly standing at His right hand and at His left."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said, "Who will persuade Ahab, king of Israel, to go up and meet his downfall at Ramoth-gilead?" One suggested one way, and another suggested a different way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a spirit came forward and stood before the LORD, saying, "I will persuade him." The LORD asked, "How will you do this?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "I will go out and become a deceptive spirit in the mouths of all his prophets." The LORD replied, "You will succeed in deceiving him, and you will prevail. Go out and do as you have said."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, understand this: the LORD has allowed a deceiving spirit to speak through these prophets of yours, and the LORD has declared disaster against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Zedekiah, the son of Chenaanah, approached and struck Micaiah on the cheek, saying, "How did the Spirit of the LORD leave me to speak to you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Micaiah replied, "You will see it on that day when you go into an inner room to hide yourself."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king of Israel said, "Take Micaiah and return him to Amon, the governor of the city, and to Joash, the king’s son."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And say, "This is what the king commands: Confine this man in prison and provide him only with the bread of hardship and the water of distress until I return safely."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Micaiah replied, "If you return safely, then the LORD has not spoken through me." Then he added, "Listen, all you people!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, advanced to Ramoth-gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "I will disguise myself and go into battle, but you should wear your royal robes." So the king of Israel disguised himself, and they went out to the battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Aram had given orders to the commanders of his chariot forces, saying, "Do not attack anyone, whether small or great, except for the king of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the commanders of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, "This must be the king of Israel!" So they surrounded him to attack. But Jehoshaphat cried out, and the LORD came to his aid. God stirred their hearts, causing them to turn away from him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the commanders of the chariots realized that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back and stopped pursuing him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A certain man drew his bow without aiming carefully and struck the king of Israel between the sections of his armor. The king then said to his chariot driver, "Turn the reins and take me out of the battle, for I am wounded."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The battle grew more intense that day. The king of Israel, however, remained propped up in his chariot facing the Arameans until evening. As the sun was setting, he died.</span></p>






</body></html>