<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 27</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sbhcsy.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:09e65b2b-ec21-606b-22e9-ab6f680197e8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 27</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message of the LORD came to me once more, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, you, son of man, raise a lament for Tyre.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And say to Tyre, O you who are located at the gateway of the sea, a merchant for the peoples of many coastlands, this is what the Lord GOD says: O Tyre, you have declared, “I am perfect in beauty.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your boundaries lie within the heart of the seas; those who constructed you have made your beauty complete.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have crafted all your ship planks from the fir trees of Senir; they have brought cedars from Lebanon to fashion masts for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your oars were crafted from the mighty oaks of Bashan; your benches were made of ivory by the skilled craftsmen of Ashur, brought from the distant coasts of Cyprus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You spread out finely woven linen from Egypt to serve as your sail; your covering was made of blue and purple fabric from the coasts of Elishah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Sidon and Arvad served as your sailors; your skilled men, O Tyre, who were among you, acted as your navigators.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The elders of Gebal and its skilled craftsmen were among you, serving as your shipbuilders. All the ships of the sea and their sailors were in your harbor to trade your goods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The soldiers from Persia, Lud, and Phut served in your army as your warriors. They hung their shields and helmets among you, displaying your splendor and magnificence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The warriors of Arvad were stationed on your walls all around, and the Gammadites were in your towers. They hung their shields on your walls everywhere; they brought your splendor to perfection.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tarshish was your trading partner because of the abundance of all kinds of wealth; they exchanged silver, iron, tin, and lead in your marketplaces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Javan, Tubal, and Meshech were your merchants; they exchanged human lives and bronze vessels in your marketplace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Togarmah conducted trade with you, bringing horses, cavalry, and mules to your markets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The merchants from Dedan traded with you; many distant lands supplied goods through your commerce. They brought you gifts of ivory tusks and ebony wood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Syria traded with you because of the abundance of goods you produced. They brought to your markets emeralds, purple cloth, intricately embroidered fabrics, fine linen, coral, and agate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah and the land of Israel were your trading partners; they conducted business with you, exchanging wheat from Minnith, grain, honey, olive oil, and fragrant resin in your marketplace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Damascus traded with you, offering an abundance of goods from your craftsmanship, in exchange for your great wealth. They brought you the fine wine of Helbon and the finest white wool.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Dan and Javan traveled back and forth, engaging in trade with you. They brought polished iron, cassia, and aromatic cane to your marketplace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Dedan traded with you, supplying fine garments for chariots.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Arabia and all the rulers of Kedar traded with you, supplying lambs, rams, and goats. These were the goods they brought as your merchants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The traders of Sheba and Raamah were your merchants; they conducted business in your markets with the finest spices, all kinds of precious stones, and gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Haran, Canneh, and Eden—the traders from Sheba, Assyria, and Chilmad—were your merchants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These were your merchants, trading in all kinds of goods: in blue cloth, embroidered garments, and chests of fine clothing, securely bound with cords and made of cedar, all part of your merchandise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The merchant ships of Tarshish celebrated your trade, and you were filled with abundance, becoming exceedingly magnificent in the heart of the seas.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your rowers have carried you into deep and treacherous waters; the east wind has shattered you in the heart of the seas.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your wealth, your markets, your goods, your sailors and navigators, your shipbuilders, your merchants, and all your warriors within you, along with all your assembled company, will fall into the heart of the sea on the day of your downfall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The surrounding towns will tremble at the sound of your captains' cries.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All those who handle the oars, the sailors, and every captain of the sea will come down from their ships and stand on the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will raise their voices against you and cry out in anguish; they will throw dust on their heads and roll in ashes as a sign of mourning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will shave their heads completely for you, wrap themselves in sackcloth, and weep for you with deep sorrow and bitter lamentation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In their mourning, they will raise a lament for you and grieve over you, saying, "What city can compare to Tyre, now silenced and ruined in the heart of the sea?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When your goods were carried across the seas, you supplied many nations; you brought great wealth to the kings of the earth through the abundance of your riches and your trade.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the time when you are shattered by the waves in the depths of the waters, your goods and all those who are part of your company will collapse in your midst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people living on the islands will be utterly amazed at you, and their kings will be deeply terrified; their faces will be filled with distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The merchants among the nations will mock you with scorn; you will become an object of horror and will cease to exist forever.</span></p>






</body></html>