<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ecclesiastes Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sbi3oq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e66d5d4f-3cb5-74a8-0165-9bad64dba7fd" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ecclesiastes Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remember your Creator during the days of your youth, before the difficult days arrive and the years approach when you will say, "I find no joy in them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars are not dimmed, and the clouds do not gather again after the rain:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the time when those who guard the house—your arms and hands—begin to tremble with weakness, and the strong men—your legs—stoop and bend under the weight of age, and the grinders—your teeth—stop working because they are few, and those who look through the windows—your eyes—grow dim and darkened,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The doors to the street will be shut when the sound of grinding fades, and people will rise at the chirping of birds, while the voices of singers grow faint.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, when people become fearful of heights and dangers along the way, when the almond tree blossoms, when the grasshopper becomes a burden, and when desire fades—this is because a person is nearing their eternal home, and mourners gather in the streets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before the silver cord is severed, or the golden bowl is shattered, or the pitcher is smashed at the spring, or the wheel is broken at the well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the dust will return to the earth as it was before, and the spirit will return to God, who gave it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Utterly meaningless," says the Teacher, "everything is meaningless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, because the Teacher was wise, he continued to impart knowledge to the people. Indeed, he carefully considered, diligently explored, and arranged many proverbs in an orderly manner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The teacher diligently searched to discover fitting and meaningful expressions, and what was written was honest and straightforward—words of truth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The teachings of the wise are like sharp goads that prod us forward, and like firmly driven nails that provide stability—these are given by the guidance of skilled leaders, all stemming from one ultimate Shepherd.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moreover, my son, take this as a warning: the writing of many books has no limit, and excessive study wearies the body.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let us consider the final conclusion of the matter: Revere God and obey His commandments, for this is the complete purpose of humanity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For God will bring every deed into judgment, including every hidden matter, whether it is good or whether it is evil.</span></p>






</body></html>