<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sbk0zf.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:646b06fe-7e96-0662-25c5-eb271ad04b2e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a prolonged conflict between the house of Saul and the house of David. However, David grew increasingly powerful, while the house of Saul became steadily weaker.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David had sons born to him in Hebron. His firstborn was Amnon, whose mother was Ahinoam from Jezreel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his second son was Chileab, born to Abigail, the widow of Nabal from Carmel. His third son was Absalom, whose mother was Maacah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fourth son was Adonijah, whose mother was Haggith; and the fifth was Shephatiah, whose mother was Abital.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sixth son was Ithream, born to David by his wife Eglah. These were the sons born to David in Hebron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the time when there was conflict between the house of Saul and the house of David, Abner strengthened his position and influence in support of Saul’s household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul had a concubine named Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah. Ish-bosheth confronted Abner, saying, "Why have you slept with my father's concubine?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abner became extremely angry at Ish-bosheth’s words and said, “Am I nothing more than a dog’s head, loyal to Judah? Even now, I have shown kindness to the house of your father Saul, to his brothers, and to his friends by not handing you over to David. Yet you accuse me of wrongdoing today because of this woman? Is this how you repay my loyalty?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May God deal severely with Abner, and even more so, unless I act toward David exactly as the LORD has sworn to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul and to establish the throne of David over all Israel and Judah, from Dan in the north to Beersheba in the south.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he could not respond to Abner with even a single word, for he was afraid of him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abner sent messengers to David on his behalf, saying, "To whom does the land belong?" He also said, "Make an agreement with me, and you will see that I will support you to unite all Israel under your rule."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he replied, "Very well; I will make a covenant with you. But I ask one thing of you: you must not appear before me unless you first bring Michal, Saul’s daughter, when you come to see me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David sent messengers to Ish-bosheth, the son of Saul, with this demand: "Give me back my wife Michal, whom I rightfully married by paying the price of a hundred Philistine foreskins."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ish-bosheth sent messengers and took her away from her husband, Phaltiel son of Laish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her husband accompanied her, weeping as he walked behind her all the way to Bahurim. Then Abner said to him, "Go back home." So he turned back and returned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abner spoke with the elders of Israel, saying, "In the past, you sought to make David your king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, carry this out, for the LORD has declared concerning David, saying, "Through my servant David, I will rescue my people Israel from the power of the Philistines and from the grasp of all their enemies."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abner also spoke directly to the people of Benjamin. Then he went to Hebron to speak privately with David, conveying all that was favorable to Israel and all that was agreeable to the entire house of Benjamin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Abner went to David in Hebron, accompanied by twenty men. David hosted a feast in honor of Abner and the men who were with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abner said to David, "I will now go and gather all Israel to you, my lord the king, so that they may form an alliance with you and you may rule over all that your heart desires." David then sent Abner on his way, and he departed in peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Suddenly, the servants of David and Joab returned from pursuing a raiding party, bringing with them a large amount of plunder. However, Abner was not with David in Hebron, for David had sent him away, and he had departed in peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Joab and all the troops with him arrived, they informed Joab, saying, "Abner, the son of Ner, came to the king, and the king sent him away, and he has departed in peace."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joab approached the king and said, "What have you done? Abner came to you—why did you let him go? Now he has left, and he is already far away."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are aware that Abner, the son of Ner, came to deceive you. His purpose was to learn about your movements—when you go out and when you come in—and to discover everything you are doing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Joab left David’s presence, he sent messengers to pursue Abner and brought him back from the well of Sirah. However, David was unaware of this.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Abner returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside at the city gate, pretending to speak with him privately. But there, Joab stabbed him in the stomach, killing him, to avenge the blood of his brother Asahel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, when David learned of this, he declared, "I and my kingdom are forever innocent before the LORD concerning the blood of Abner, the son of Ner."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the guilt rest on Joab’s head and on all his father’s household. May there never be lacking in Joab’s house someone who suffers from a discharge, or is afflicted with leprosy, or is forced to rely on a crutch, or falls by the sword, or goes without food.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joab and his brother Abishai killed Abner, because he had killed their brother Asahel during the battle at Gibeon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Joab and all the people with him, "Tear your clothes, put on sackcloth, and mourn for Abner." King David himself walked behind the funeral procession.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They buried Abner in Hebron, and the king raised his voice and wept at Abner’s grave. All the people also wept.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king mourned deeply for Abner and said, "Did Abner die as a fool dies?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your hands were not tied, nor were your feet placed in chains. Yet, like a man who falls before the wicked, so you fell. And all the people wept for him once more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all the people urged David to eat food while it was still daylight, David solemnly swore, saying, "May God deal severely with me, and even more so, if I taste bread or anything else before the sun sets."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people observed this, and it was pleasing to them; indeed, everything the king did brought satisfaction to all the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, all the people and all of Israel realized that King David had no part in the death of Abner, the son of Ner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to his servants, "Do you not realize that today a leader and a great man has fallen in Israel?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today, though I have been anointed as king, I feel powerless; and these men, the sons of Zeruiah, are too strong for me. May the Lord repay the one who does evil according to their own wickedness.</span></p>






</body></html>