<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sbpsuc.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:71c436b5-7961-f479-4612-46f852addd4b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the seventh year of Jehu's reign, Jehoash became king, and he ruled in Jerusalem for forty years. His mother's name was Zibiah, and she was from Beersheba.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoash did what was right in the eyes of the LORD throughout the time that Jehoiada the priest guided him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the high places were not removed: the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense at these elevated sites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoash instructed the priests, saying, "All the money that is brought as sacred offerings to the house of the LORD—whether it is the money collected from each person as part of their assessment, the money given voluntarily by individuals, or any other funds that people feel moved in their hearts to bring to the house of the LORD—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let the priests collect it from their acquaintances, each from those they know. Then, let them use the funds to repair any damage found in the temple, wherever there is a need for restoration.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, by the twenty-third year of King Jehoash’s reign, the priests had still not repaired the damages to the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Jehoash summoned Jehoiada the priest and the other priests and said to them, "Why are you not repairing the damage to the temple? Now, do not take any more money from your acquaintances, but instead, use it to repair the damage to the temple."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests agreed to stop collecting money from the people and also decided not to take responsibility for repairing the damages to the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jehoiada the priest took a chest and made a hole in its lid. He placed it beside the altar, on the right side as one enters the house of the Lord. The priests who guarded the entrance put into it all the money that was brought into the house of the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they saw that there was a large amount of money in the chest, the king’s secretary and the high priest came and collected it. They placed the money in bags and counted the funds that had been gathered in the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They handed over the money, as directed, to those who were in charge of the work on the house of the LORD. These overseers then distributed it to the carpenters and builders who were carrying out the repairs and construction on the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also provided funds for the stonemasons and stonecutters, and for purchasing timber and prepared stones to repair the damage to the house of the LORD, as well as for all the expenses required to restore the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, no bowls of silver, snuffers, basins, trumpets, or any vessels of gold or silver were made for the house of the LORD from the money that was brought into the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they handed over the funds to the workers, and with it, they restored the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, they did not require an account from the men to whom they entrusted the money to pay the workers, because they acted with complete honesty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The money collected for guilt offerings and sin offerings was not brought into the house of the LORD; it belonged to the priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Hazael, the king of Aram, advanced and attacked Gath, capturing it. Afterward, Hazael turned his attention toward marching against Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoash, the king of Judah, gathered all the sacred objects that his ancestors—Jehoshaphat, Jehoram, and Ahaziah, the former kings of Judah—had dedicated, along with his own sacred offerings. He also collected all the gold that was stored in the treasuries of the Lord’s temple and the royal palace. He sent all of these to Hazael, the king of Syria. After this, Hazael withdrew his forces from Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Joash and everything he accomplished are recorded in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah, are they not?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then his servants conspired against him and formed a plot. They killed Joash in the house of Millo, on the way that leads down to Silla.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jozachar, the son of Shimeath, and Jehozabad, the son of Shomer, who were his servants, struck him down, and he died. They buried him with his ancestors in the City of David, and his son Amaziah became king in his place.</span></p>






</body></html>