<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sbrexw.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:01ad4f93-bce1-8a56-1701-cd00d78c2284" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Saul’s son heard that Abner had died in Hebron, he lost all strength, and all the Israelites were deeply distressed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul’s son had two men who were leaders of raiding parties. One was named Baanah, and the other was named Rechab. They were the sons of Rimmon, a man from Beeroth, and they belonged to the tribe of Benjamin. (Beeroth was considered part of Benjamin’s territory.)</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Beeroth fled to Gittaim and have lived there as foreigners to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan, the son of Saul, had a son who was crippled in his feet. He was five years old when the news about Saul and Jonathan came from Jezreel. His nurse picked him up and fled, but in her haste to escape, he fell and was left lame. His name was Mephibosheth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rechab and Baanah, the sons of Rimmon from Beeroth, set out and arrived at the house of Ish-bosheth during the hottest part of the day. At that time, Ish-bosheth was resting on his bed at noon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They entered the house as if they were coming to get grain, but instead, they struck him in the stomach. Then Rechab and his brother Baanah fled and escaped.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they entered the house, he was lying on his bed in his bedroom. They attacked him, killed him, and cut off his head. Then they took his head and fled through the plain all night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They brought the head of Ish-bosheth to David at Hebron and said to the king, "Here is the head of Ish-bosheth, the son of Saul, your enemy, who sought to take your life. Today the LORD has avenged my lord the king against Saul and his descendants."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David replied to Rechab and Baanah, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, and said to them, "As surely as the LORD lives, who has delivered me from every trouble..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When someone came to me and said, “Look, Saul is dead,” believing he was bringing good news, I seized him and killed him in Ziklag. He expected me to reward him for his message, but instead, I took his life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How much more, when wicked men have killed a righteous person in his own home, even on his bed? Should I not now demand an accounting for his blood from your hand and remove you from the earth?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David gave orders to his young men, and they killed them. They cut off their hands and feet and hung their bodies by the pool in Hebron. However, they took the head of Ish-bosheth and buried it in Abner’s tomb in Hebron.</span></p>






</body></html>