<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sbtvgw.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9cbbcd62-1e35-3a68-62f8-f3c37d0cb80a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Moses and the Israelites sang this song to the LORD, declaring: "I will sing to the LORD, for He has achieved a magnificent victory; He has hurled the horse and its rider into the sea."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD is my strength and my song; he has become my deliverance. He is my God, and I will honor him with a dwelling place; the God of my father, and I will lift him high in praise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD is a warrior; the LORD is his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord has hurled Pharaoh’s chariots and his army into the sea; his elite officers have been drowned in the waters of the Red Sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The deep waters overwhelmed them; they sank to the depths like a stone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your right hand, O LORD, is majestic in strength; your right hand, O LORD, has shattered the enemy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the vastness of your majesty, you have overthrown those who rebelled against you. You unleashed your fury, and it devoured them like dry stubble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By the power of your breath, the waters were driven back; the surging waves stood firm like a wall, and the deep waters solidified in the midst of the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The enemy declared, "I will chase them down, I will catch up to them, I will plunder their wealth; my desire will be fully satisfied at their expense. I will draw my sword, and my hand will utterly destroy them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You blew with your wind, and the sea overwhelmed them; they sank like lead in the mighty waters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who can compare to you, O LORD, among the gods? Who is like you, majestic in holiness, awe-inspiring in splendor, working wonders?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You extended your mighty hand, and the earth engulfed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In your steadfast love, you have led the people you have redeemed; with your mighty power, you have guided them to your sacred dwelling place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people will hear and be filled with fear; anguish will seize the inhabitants of Philistia.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the leaders of Edom will be struck with terror; the warriors of Moab will be seized with trembling; and all the inhabitants of Canaan will lose heart and collapse in fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Terror and overwhelming fear will come upon them; by the power of your mighty arm, they will be paralyzed like a stone, until your people, O LORD, have crossed over, until the people you have redeemed have passed through.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will bring them in and plant them on the mountain of your inheritance, the place, O LORD, which you have prepared as your dwelling, the sanctuary, O Lord, which your hands have established.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will reign forever and ever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Pharaoh’s horses, chariots, and horsemen entered the sea, the LORD caused the waters to rush back over them. However, the Israelites walked through the sea on dry ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Miriam, the prophetess and sister of Aaron, took a tambourine in her hand, and all the women followed her with tambourines and dancing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Miriam responded to them, saying, "Sing to the LORD, for He has achieved a magnificent victory; He has hurled the horse and its rider into the sea."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Moses led the Israelites away from the Red Sea, and they journeyed into the wilderness of Shur. They traveled for three days in the desert but found no water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived at Marah, they could not drink the water there because it was bitter. That is why the place was called Marah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people complained against Moses, saying, "What are we supposed to drink?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he cried out to the LORD, and the LORD showed him a tree. When he threw it into the water, the water became sweet and drinkable. There the LORD established a statute and a rule for them, and there He tested them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said, "If you will carefully listen to the voice of the LORD your God, and do what is right in His sight, and pay attention to His commandments, and keep all His decrees, I will not bring upon you any of the diseases that I inflicted on the Egyptians. For I am the LORD, who heals you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They arrived at Elim, where there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees. They set up camp there by the water.</span></p>






</body></html>