<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sc1tdp.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6f611151-0408-6174-9820-39da82b304c4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instruct the Israelites to remove from the camp anyone who has leprosy, anyone with a bodily discharge, and anyone who has become ritually unclean through contact with a dead body.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must send both men and women outside the camp; you are to expel them so that they do not defile the camp where I dwell among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites obeyed and sent them outside the camp, just as the LORD had commanded Moses. This is what the Israelites did.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and say to them: When a man or woman commits any sin that people commonly commit, acting unfaithfully against the LORD, and that person is found guilty,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they must openly acknowledge the wrong they have committed. They must fully repay the amount of the wrongdoing, adding to it an additional fifth, and give it to the person they have wronged.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the man has no relative to whom the restitution for the wrongdoing can be made, then the restitution must be given to the LORD, that is, to the priest. This is in addition to the ram of atonement, which is to be offered to make atonement for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And every offering of the sacred things brought by the Israelites, which they present to the priest, shall belong to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every person’s sacred offerings shall belong to them. Whatever anyone gives to the priest will become the priest’s possession.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and tell them: If a man’s wife turns away and is unfaithful to him, breaking her commitment,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man has sexual relations with a woman, and it is concealed from her husband, remaining hidden, and she is defiled, but there is no witness against her and she is not caught in the act, then the situation stands as follows:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a husband becomes overcome by a spirit of jealousy and suspects his wife of being unfaithful, whether she has actually been defiled or not, the situation must be addressed. If he is filled with jealousy and believes she has been unfaithful, even if she has not, the matter requires resolution according to the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the man must bring his wife to the priest, along with the offering required for her—a tenth of an ephah of barley flour. He must not pour oil on it or add frankincense, because it is a jealousy offering, a reminder offering, meant to bring wrongdoing to light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall bring her forward and present her before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take sacred water in a clay jar, and from the dust on the floor of the tabernacle, he shall gather some and mix it into the water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall present the woman before the LORD, uncover her head, and place the memorial offering in her hands—this is the jealousy offering. The priest shall also hold in his hand the bitter water that brings about the curse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall then place the woman under oath and say to her, "If no man has slept with you, and if you have not been unfaithful to your husband by becoming impure with another man, then may you be free from the effects of this bitter water that brings a curse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you have turned aside to another man instead of your husband, and if you have become defiled, and another man has slept with you besides your husband—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall place the woman under a solemn oath of cursing, and the priest shall say to her, "May the LORD make you an object of cursing and a sworn example among your people when the LORD causes your thigh to waste away and your abdomen to swell."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This water that brings the curse will enter your body, causing your abdomen to swell and your thigh to waste away. And the woman shall respond, "Amen, amen."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall inscribe these curses in a scroll, and then he shall wash them off into the bitter water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall make the woman drink the bitter water that brings about the curse, and the water that brings about the curse will enter her and cause her distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall take the offering of jealousy from the woman’s hand, lift it up before the LORD, and present it upon the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take a handful of the grain offering, which serves as a memorial portion, and burn it on the altar. Afterward, he shall have the woman drink the water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he has made her drink the water, it will come to pass that if she has defiled herself and been unfaithful to her husband, the water that brings the curse will enter her and cause bitter suffering. Her abdomen will swell, her thigh will waste away, and she will become an object of cursing among her people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the woman is found to be innocent and pure, she will be cleared of any wrongdoing and will be able to conceive children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning cases of jealousy, when a wife strays and is unfaithful to her husband, becoming impure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Or when a spirit of jealousy comes over a man, and he becomes suspicious of his wife, he shall bring her before the LORD, and the priest shall carry out for her all the provisions of this law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the man will be free from guilt, but the woman must bear the consequences of her wrongdoing.</span></p>






</body></html>