<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sc2r64.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0ef4c323-0abe-db63-9a42-1792d9ec00fd" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoam, sang this song on that day, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Praise the LORD for delivering justice to Israel, when the people freely and wholeheartedly dedicated themselves to the cause.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, you kings; pay attention, you rulers; I, yes I, will sing to the LORD; I will offer praise to the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">LORD, when You set out from Seir, when You marched from the land of Edom, the earth shook, and the heavens poured down rain; even the clouds released their waters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The mountains flowed like wax in the presence of the LORD, even Mount Sinai itself, in the presence of the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the time of Shamgar, the son of Anath, and in the days of Jael, the main roads were deserted, and travelers had to take hidden paths.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of the villages in Israel stopped living their normal lives; they ceased their activities until I, Deborah, rose up—until I arose as a mother for Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They turned to new gods, and then war broke out at their city gates. Was there even a single shield or spear to be found among the forty thousand in Israel?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My heart is drawn to the leaders of Israel, who willingly dedicated themselves among the people. Praise the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak, you who ride on white donkeys, you who sit in positions of judgment, and you who travel along the road.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who have been rescued from the clamor of archers at the watering places will gather there to recount the righteous deeds of the LORD—His just and faithful acts toward the people of His villages in Israel. Then the people of the LORD will go down to the gates.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Awake, awake, Deborah! Awake, awake, and sing a song! Rise up, Barak, and take your captives as your own, you son of Abinoam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he caused the one who remained to rule over the nobles among the people; the LORD enabled me to rule over the powerful.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Ephraim came those who rose up against Amalek; following you, Benjamin, among your people. From Machir came leaders, and from Zebulun came those skilled in wielding the scribe’s pen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of Issachar stood with Deborah; indeed, Issachar supported Barak, who was sent into the valley on foot. As for the divisions of Reuben, there were deep deliberations and much uncertainty in their hearts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why do you remain among the sheep pens, listening to the sounds of the flocks? For the clans of Reuben, there were deep and troubled deliberations of the heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gilead stayed on the other side of the Jordan; why did Dan remain with his ships? Asher lingered by the seashore and stayed in his harbors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zebulun and Naphtali were a people who risked their lives to the point of death on the heights of the battlefield.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The kings arrived and engaged in battle; the kings of Canaan fought at Taanach near the waters of Megiddo, but they took no spoils of silver or wealth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the heavens, they waged war; the stars, moving in their appointed paths, battled against Sisera.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Kishon River swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. My soul, you have trampled down strength.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the pounding of the hooves was shattered by the fierce galloping, the galloping of their mighty steeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel of the LORD declared, "Curse Meroz, curse its inhabitants bitterly, for they did not come to assist the LORD, to stand with the LORD against the mighty."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, will be honored above all women; she will be most honored among women who dwell in tents.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He asked for water, and she gave him milk; she brought him curds in a fine, noble bowl.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She reached for the tent peg, and her right hand took the workman’s hammer. With the hammer, she struck Sisera, crushing his head; she shattered and pierced his temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At her feet he collapsed, he fell, he lay down; at her feet he collapsed, he fell; where he collapsed, there he fell dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sisera’s mother peered through the window, gazing out from behind the lattice, and cried out, “Why is his chariot taking so long to return? Why are the wheels of his chariots delayed?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her wise women responded to her, and indeed, she herself gave this reply:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have they not succeeded? Have they not divided the plunder? Each warrior received a young woman or two as his share. For Sisera, they took richly embroidered garments, beautifully crafted fabrics, intricately designed on both sides—fit to adorn the necks of those who carry off the spoils.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May all your enemies perish in this way, O LORD; but may those who love you shine brightly like the sun rising in its full strength. And the land enjoyed peace for forty years.</span></p>






</body></html>