<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sc427a.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7fff8cce-0356-9415-3823-d7192e6a7e61" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, Abijam began to reign over Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He ruled in Jerusalem for three years. His mother’s name was Maacah, the daughter of Abishalom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He followed all the sinful ways of his father, which he had practiced before him, and his heart was not fully devoted to the LORD his God, as the heart of David his father had been.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009254"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, for the sake of David, the LORD his God granted him a lasting legacy in Jerusalem by allowing his son to succeed him and by establishing Jerusalem securely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009255"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because David did what was right in the sight of the LORD and did not turn away from anything He commanded him throughout his entire life, except in the matter concerning Uriah the Hittite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009256"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was continual conflict between Rehoboam and Jeroboam throughout Rehoboam’s entire lifetime.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009257"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The rest of the events of Abijam’s reign, along with all his accomplishments, are recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah. During his reign, there was ongoing conflict between Abijam and Jeroboam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009258"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abijam died and was buried in the City of David alongside his ancestors. His son Asa then became king in his place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009259"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twentieth year of Jeroboam's reign as king of Israel, Asa began to rule over Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009260"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He reigned in Jerusalem for forty-one years. His mother’s name was Maacah, the daughter of Abishalom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009261"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Asa did what was right in the sight of the LORD, just as his ancestor David had done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009262"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He expelled the practitioners of immoral and idolatrous rituals from the land and eliminated all the false idols that his ancestors had set up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009263"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, Asa removed his mother Maachah from her position as queen because she had made a detestable idol for Asherah. Asa cut down her idol, crushed it, and burned it in the Kidron Valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009264"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the high places were not taken away. Yet, Asa remained wholeheartedly devoted to the LORD throughout his entire life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009265"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He brought into the house of the LORD the items that his father had consecrated, as well as those he himself had dedicated—silver, gold, and various sacred vessels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009266"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was continual conflict between Asa and Baasha, the king of Israel, throughout their reigns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009267"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Baasha, the king of Israel, advanced against Judah and fortified Ramah to prevent anyone from leaving or entering the territory of Asa, the king of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Asa gathered all the silver and gold that remained in the treasuries of the house of the LORD and the treasuries of the royal palace, and he entrusted them to his servants. King Asa sent them to Ben-hadad, the son of Tabrimon and grandson of Hezion, the king of Syria, who resided in Damascus, with this message:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There is an agreement between you and me, and between my father and your father. Look, I have sent you a gift of silver and gold. Now, come and break your alliance with Baasha, the king of Israel, so that he will withdraw from me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Ben-hadad listened to King Asa and sent the commanders of his armies against the cities of Israel. They attacked and captured Ijon, Dan, Abel-beth-maachah, and all the region of Cinneroth, along with the entire territory of Naphtali.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Baasha heard this news, he stopped his work on fortifying Ramah and remained in Tirzah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Asa issued a decree throughout all of Judah, and no one was exempt from it. They removed the stones and timber from Ramah, which Baasha had used for building, and King Asa used them to fortify Geba in the territory of Benjamin and Mizpah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining details of Asa’s reign, including his accomplishments, his strength, and all that he achieved, as well as the cities he built, are recorded in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah. However, in his later years, he suffered from a disease in his feet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Asa died and was laid to rest with his ancestors in the city of David, his forefather. His son Jehoshaphat succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nadab, the son of Jeroboam, became king over Israel in the second year of Asa's reign as king of Judah. He ruled over Israel for two years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed evil in the eyes of the LORD, following the ways of his father and persisting in the same sins by which he led Israel into sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Baasha, the son of Ahijah, from the tribe of Issachar, plotted against Nadab. Baasha attacked and killed him at Gibbethon, a town controlled by the Philistines, while Nadab and all the forces of Israel were besieging Gibbethon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009278"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the third year of Asa's reign as king of Judah, Baasha killed Nadab and took the throne in his place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009279"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he became king, he struck down the entire household of Jeroboam. He left no one from Jeroboam’s family alive, completely destroying them, just as the LORD had declared through his servant Ahijah the Shilonite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009280"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the sins Jeroboam committed, and the sins he caused Israel to commit, by his actions that provoked the LORD, the God of Israel, to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Nadab’s reign and all that he accomplished are recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel, are they not?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009282"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was continual conflict between Asa and Baasha, the king of Israel, throughout their reigns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the third year of Asa's reign as king of Judah, Baasha, the son of Ahijah, became king over all Israel. He ruled from Tirzah for twenty-four years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed evil in the eyes of the LORD, following the ways of Jeroboam and persisting in the same sins that caused Israel to sin.</span></p>






</body></html>