<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sc4j2f.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9b8c8117-c9f7-6135-dbcc-92d07bb1a704" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the seventh year, on the tenth day of the fifth month, some of the elders of Israel came to seek guidance from the LORD and sat down before me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel and say to them, 'This is what the Lord GOD says: Have you come to seek guidance from me? As surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, I will not allow you to seek answers from me.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Will you judge them, son of man? Will you pass judgment on them? Make them aware of the detestable actions of their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And say to them, "This is what the Lord GOD declares: On the day I chose Israel, I solemnly pledged myself to the descendants of the house of Jacob. I revealed myself to them in the land of Egypt, raising my hand in an oath to them and declaring, 'I am the LORD your God.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the day when I solemnly pledged to them, promising to bring them out of the land of Egypt and into a land I had chosen for them—a land rich and abundant, flowing with milk and honey, a land that stands as the most splendid of all lands—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said to them, "Each of you must cast away the detestable things that captivate your eyes, and do not defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt. I am the LORD your God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But they rebelled against me and refused to listen to me. Not one of them cast away the detestable things they gazed upon, nor did they abandon the idols of Egypt. Therefore, I declared that I would pour out my wrath upon them and fully unleash my anger against them while they were still in the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I acted for the sake of my name, so that it would not be dishonored among the nations where they lived, in whose presence I had revealed myself by bringing them out of the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I led them out of the land of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I gave them my statutes and made known to them my ordinances, which, if a person follows them, they will live by them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, I gave them my Sabbaths as a sign between me and them, so that they might understand that I am the LORD who sets them apart as holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the house of Israel defied me in the wilderness. They did not follow my laws, and they rejected my decrees, which, if a person obeys, they will live by them. They also greatly profaned my Sabbaths. So I declared that I would pour out my wrath upon them in the wilderness and bring them to an end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I acted for the sake of my name, so that it would not be dishonored among the nations, before whose eyes I had brought them out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moreover, I solemnly declared to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land I had promised to give them—a land rich with milk and honey, the most splendid of all lands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they rejected my laws and did not follow my decrees, but instead defiled my Sabbaths—for their hearts were devoted to their idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet I showed them mercy and did not destroy them completely, nor did I bring about their end in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I said to their children in the wilderness, "Do not follow the ways of your ancestors or keep their customs. Do not defile yourselves with their idols."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am the LORD your God. Live according to my decrees, obey my laws, and carry them out faithfully.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Set apart and honor my Sabbaths; they will serve as a sign between me and you, so that you may recognize that I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the children rebelled against me. They did not follow my laws or observe my decrees, which, if a person keeps, they will live by them. They defiled my Sabbaths. So I declared that I would pour out my wrath upon them and fully unleash my anger against them in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I held back my hand and acted for the sake of my reputation, so that it would not be dishonored in the eyes of the nations, among whom I had brought them out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I solemnly swore to them in the wilderness that I would scatter them among the nations and disperse them across the lands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they failed to carry out my judgments, rejected my statutes, defiled my Sabbaths, and their eyes were fixed on the idols of their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I also gave them statutes that were not beneficial and judgments by which they could not truly live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I defiled them through their own offerings, because they sacrificed all their firstborn children in the fire, so that I might devastate them and make them realize that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, mortal, speak to the people of Israel and say to them, "This is what the Lord GOD says: Your ancestors dishonored me by their unfaithfulness and rebellion against me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I brought them into the land that I had solemnly promised to give them, they looked upon every high hill and every leafy tree, and there they offered their sacrifices. In those places, they presented offerings that provoked my anger, burning incense to create a pleasing aroma, and poured out their drink offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said to them, "What is this elevated place you keep going to?" And its name is called Bamah to this very day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, speak to the house of Israel and say to them, "This is what the Lord GOD declares: Are you defiling yourselves in the same way as your ancestors did? Are you engaging in immoral acts, following their detestable practices?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you present your offerings and cause your children to pass through the fire, you defile yourselves with all your idols, even to this day. So should I allow you to consult me, O house of Israel? As surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, I will not let you seek guidance from me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The thoughts that arise in your mind will come to nothing when you say, "We will be like the nations, like the peoples of other lands, serving wood and stone."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, I will rule over you with a strong hand, an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will lead you out from among the nations and gather you from the lands where you have been scattered. I will do this with great power, with an outstretched arm, and with intense judgment poured out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will lead you into the wilderness of the nations, and there I will confront you directly and personally.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as I contended with your ancestors in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will contend with you, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will make you pass under the shepherd's rod, and I will bring you into the binding agreement of the covenant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will remove from among you those who rebel and those who sin against me. I will bring them out of the land where they dwell as foreigners, but they will not enter the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To you, O house of Israel, this is what the Lord GOD says: Go ahead, each of you, serve your idols, and continue to do so if you refuse to listen to me. But stop defiling my holy name with your offerings and your idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For on my holy mountain, on the lofty mountain of Israel, declares the Sovereign LORD, all the house of Israel, every one of them in the land, will serve me. There I will accept them, and there I will require your offerings, the firstfruits of your gifts, and all your sacred contributions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will accept you with your pleasing aroma when I bring you out from among the nations and gather you from the lands where you have been scattered. I will demonstrate my holiness through you in the sight of the nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will come to understand that I am the LORD when I bring you into the land of Israel, the land I solemnly promised to give to your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There you will reflect on your ways and all the actions by which you have defiled yourselves. You will feel deep disgust for yourselves because of all the evil deeds you have committed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will come to understand that I am the LORD when I act on your behalf for the sake of my name—not because of your wicked ways or your corrupt deeds, O house of Israel, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the message of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, turn your face toward the south and direct your words toward the southern region. Prophesy against the forest of the southern field."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and proclaim to the forest of the southern region: Hear the word of the LORD! This is what the Sovereign LORD says: I am about to ignite a fire within you, and it will consume every green tree and every dry tree among you. The blazing flames will not be extinguished, and every face—from the south to the north—will be scorched by it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all humanity will witness that I, the LORD, have ignited it; it will not be extinguished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said, "Ah, Lord GOD! They say about me, 'Doesn’t he just speak in riddles?'"</span></p>






</body></html>