<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sc6y84.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:79c5e657-70ec-1330-9369-de101e839437" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of the LORD came to me again, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Son of man, you live among a rebellious people. Though they have eyes to see, they do not truly see; though they have ears to hear, they do not truly listen, for they are a defiant and rebellious house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, son of man, gather your belongings as if preparing for exile, and move during the day while they watch. Leave your current place and go to another location in their sight. Perhaps they will take notice, even though they are a rebellious people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall carry out your belongings during the day, in full view of the people, as though preparing to move. And in the evening, you shall go out in their sight, as those who are being led away into exile.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Break through the wall in front of their eyes, and carry your belongings out through the opening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In their presence, you will carry it on your shoulders and take it out at dusk. You will cover your face so that you do not see the ground, for I have made you a sign to the house of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I did exactly as I was commanded: during the day, I brought out my belongings as though preparing for exile. Then, in the evening, I dug through the wall with my hands. I carried my belongings out in the dim light of dusk, bearing them on my shoulder while they watched.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the morning, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, has not the house of Israel, that rebellious people, said to you, 'What are you doing?'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell them this: Thus says the Lord GOD: This message concerns the ruler in Jerusalem and all the house of Israel who are among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Say, "I am a sign to you: just as I have done, so it will be done to them. They will be uprooted and taken away into captivity."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leader among them will carry his belongings on his shoulder in the dim light and go out. They will break through the wall to escape through it. He will cover his face so that he cannot see the ground with his eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also spread my net over him, and he will be caught in my trap. I will bring him to Babylon, the land of the Chaldeans, but he will not see it, for he will die there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will scatter to every direction all those who support him and all his troops, and I will pursue them with the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they will come to understand that I am the LORD when I scatter them among the nations and disperse them across the lands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will spare a small remnant of them from the sword, famine, and plague, so that they may recount all their detestable practices among the nations where they go. Then they will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the message of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, eat your bread with trembling, and drink your water with fear and anxiety."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and speak to the people of the land, saying, "This is what the Sovereign LORD says concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem and the land of Israel: They will eat their bread in anxiety and drink their water in dismay, for their land will be stripped of all it contains because of the violence committed by all who live there."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cities where people live will be reduced to ruins, and the land will become a desolate wasteland. Then you will come to understand that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, what is that saying you have in the land of Israel: 'The days drag on, and every vision comes to nothing'?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, tell them this is what the Lord GOD says: I will put an end to this proverb, and it will no longer be repeated in Israel. Instead, say to them: The time is near, and every vision will be fulfilled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For there will no longer be any false visions or deceitful prophecies among the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I am the LORD: I will speak, and the word that I declare will surely come to pass. It will not be delayed any longer. In your lifetime, O rebellious people, I will declare the word and fulfill it, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, take note: the people of Israel are saying, 'The vision he sees is for a distant future, and he is prophesying about times far off.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, say to them, "This is what the Lord GOD declares: None of my words will be delayed any longer. What I have spoken will surely come to pass, says the Lord GOD."</span></p>






</body></html>