<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sc73f5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cf4895d8-4683-7b12-ec8f-7863e60bc070" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone steals an ox or a sheep and then slaughters it or sells it, they must make restitution by giving five oxen for the one ox and four sheep for the one sheep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a thief is caught breaking in and is struck so that he dies, no guilt for his bloodshed shall be incurred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the sun has risen when the theft is discovered, the thief is guilty of a capital offense and must face the consequences; for he must make full restitution. However, if he has nothing to repay, he shall be sold to compensate for his theft.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the stolen animal is indeed found alive in the thief's possession—whether it is an ox, a donkey, or a sheep—the thief must repay double its value.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone allows their livestock to graze in another person’s field or vineyard, and the animals feed there, the owner of the livestock must make restitution. They must compensate the owner of the damaged field or vineyard by giving the best produce from their own field or vineyard as payment for the loss.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a fire breaks out and spreads through thornbushes, so that it consumes stacks of grain, standing grain, or the entire field, the one who started the fire must fully compensate for the loss.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone entrusts their neighbor with money or goods for safekeeping, and it is stolen from the neighbor’s house, then if the thief is caught, the thief must repay double the value of what was stolen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the thief is not discovered, the owner of the house must be brought before the judges to determine whether he has unlawfully taken his neighbor’s property.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In any case of wrongdoing—whether it involves an ox, a donkey, a sheep, clothing, or any other lost item that someone claims as their own—the dispute between the two parties must be brought before the judges. Whoever the judges find guilty must repay their neighbor double the value of what was lost.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone entrusts to their neighbor a donkey, an ox, a sheep, or any other animal to care for, and it dies, is injured, or is taken away without anyone witnessing it,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the two parties shall swear an oath before the LORD, declaring that the accused has not taken their neighbor's property. The owner of the lost item must accept this oath, and the accused will not be required to make restitution.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If it is stolen from him, he must compensate the owner for the loss.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the animal is torn apart by wild beasts, the owner must present the remains as evidence, and he will not be required to compensate for the loss of the torn animal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone borrows something from their neighbor and it gets damaged or dies while the owner is not present, the borrower must fully compensate the owner for the loss.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if the owner is present with it, the borrower will not have to repay it. If it was rented, the loss is covered by the rental fee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man seduces a virgin who is not pledged to be married and sleeps with her, he must take her as his wife and provide for her as his spouse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If her father completely refuses to give her in marriage to him, he must still pay the amount equivalent to the customary bride price for virgins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not allow a sorceress to remain alive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who has sexual relations with an animal must certainly be executed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever offers sacrifices to any god other than the LORD alone must be completely destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not mistreat or oppress a foreigner, for you yourselves were foreigners in the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not mistreat any widow or fatherless child.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you oppress them in any way, and they cry out to me, I will certainly hear their cry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My anger will burn fiercely, and I will strike you down with the sword. Your wives will become widows, and your children will be left without fathers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you lend money to any of my people who are poor among you, you must not act like a creditor toward them, nor charge them interest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you take your neighbor’s garment as security for a debt, you must return it to them by sunset.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is his only covering, the garment for his skin—what else will he sleep in? And when he cries out to me, I will listen, for I am compassionate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not speak disrespectfully of the divine beings, nor should you curse the leader of your people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not delay in offering the first of your ripe produce and the first of your pressed juices. You are to give me the firstborn of your sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must do the same with your oxen and your sheep: for seven days, the young animal shall remain with its mother; on the eighth day, you are to give it to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to be a people set apart and consecrated to me. Do not eat any meat that has been torn apart by wild animals in the field; instead, you must throw it to the dogs.</span></p>






</body></html>