<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Micah Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sc7sgr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0d5a03a2-6403-6209-dd25-34953436bd6c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Micah Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for those who plot wickedness and devise evil on their beds! As soon as morning comes, they carry it out, because they have the power to do so.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They desire fields and seize them by force; they take houses and claim them as their own. In this way, they oppress individuals and their households, stripping people of their rightful inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says: "Listen, I am planning a disaster against this family, and you will not be able to escape its consequences. You will not walk away proudly, for this is a time of calamity."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, someone will speak a proverb against you and mourn with a sorrowful lament, saying, "We are completely ruined! He has taken away the inheritance of my people. How has He removed it from us! Turning away, He has divided our land among others."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you will have no one to measure out an inheritance by lot in the assembly of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Do not prophesy," they say to those who proclaim God's message. "Do not speak to us about these things, so that we will not be confronted with our shame."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O you who are called the house of Jacob, is the Spirit of the LORD limited? Are these His ways? Do not My words bring good to those who walk in integrity?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Recently, my own people have risen up as an enemy: you strip the cloak and the garment from those who pass by peacefully, as though they were returning from war.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have driven out the women of my people from their comfortable homes; you have taken away my splendor from their children forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Get up and leave, for this is not your place of rest. Because it is defiled, it will bring you ruin—a grievous destruction."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone, while claiming to walk in the spirit, speaks deceitfully and lies, saying, "I will prophesy to you about wine and strong drink," that person will indeed become a prophet for this kind of people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will indeed gather you, O Jacob, all of you; I will surely bring together the remnant of Israel. I will unite them like sheep in a pen, like a flock in the midst of their pasture; they will be filled with commotion because of the great number of people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who breaks through has gone up before them; they have broken out, passed through the gate, and departed by it. Their king will lead the way before them, with the LORD at their head.</span></p>






</body></html>