<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Corinthians Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sc810w.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:682a65a5-b9a5-cab5-4f7f-69892c762924" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Corinthians Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It is not beneficial for me to boast, but I will proceed to speak of visions and revelations from the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I know a man in Christ who, over fourteen years ago—whether in the body or out of the body, I cannot say; God knows—was caught up to the third heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I knew a man like this—whether he was in his body or outside of it, I cannot say; only God knows—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was taken up into paradise and heard inexpressible words, which no one is permitted to speak.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will boast about such a person, but I will not boast about myself, except in my weaknesses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if I wanted to boast, I would not be foolish, because I would only be speaking the truth. But I refrain from doing so, so that no one may think more highly of me than what they observe in my actions or hear from my words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To prevent me from becoming overly proud because of the extraordinary revelations I received, I was given a thorn in my flesh—a messenger from Satan to torment me—so that I would not become conceited.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding this matter, I pleaded with the Lord three times, asking that it might be taken away from me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to me, "My grace is enough for you, for my power is made complete in weakness." Therefore, I will most gladly boast all the more about my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may dwell in me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I find joy in weaknesses, in insults, in hardships, in persecutions, and in difficulties endured for the sake of Christ. For when I am weak, then I am truly strong.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have been made to look foolish by boasting, but you forced me into it. I should have been commended by you, for I am not inferior to the most eminent apostles, even though I am nothing in myself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, the marks of an apostle were demonstrated among you with great endurance, through miraculous signs, wonders, and powerful acts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In what way were you less significant than the other churches, except that I did not burden you financially? Please forgive me for this perceived wrong.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, this is the third time I am preparing to come to you, and I will not be a burden to you. For I am not seeking what is yours, but you yourselves. After all, it is not the responsibility of the children to save up for their parents, but the parents for their children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am willing to give everything I have and exhaust myself completely for your sake. Even though my love for you grows ever greater, the love I receive in return seems to grow less.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But even if it is so, I did not impose any burden on you. Yet, being shrewd, I used wisdom to win you over.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Did I take advantage of you through any of those I sent to you?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I asked Titus to go, and I sent a brother with him. Did Titus take advantage of you in any way? Did we not act in the same spirit? Did we not follow the same path?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, do you think we are defending ourselves to you? We speak before God in the presence of Christ, but everything we do, beloved, is for your strengthening and growth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am concerned that when I come to you, I may not find you as I hope, and that you may not find me as you expect. I fear there may be quarrels, jealousy, anger, rivalry, slander, gossip, arrogance, and disorder among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to prevent this, when I come again, my God may humble me before you, and I will have to mourn over many who have already sinned and have not turned away from the impurity, sexual immorality, and indecent behavior they have practiced.</span></p>






</body></html>