<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sc9x34.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:537e93f8-45d6-72d2-09d0-84f01e63cc8f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD also spoke to Joshua, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and say: Designate for yourselves the cities of refuge, as I instructed you through Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person who unintentionally and unknowingly kills another may flee there; these cities will serve as a refuge for them from the avenger of blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When someone flees to one of these cities, they must stand at the entrance of the city gate and present their case to the elders of that city. The elders will then allow them to enter the city and provide them with a place to live among the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the avenger of blood pursues the slayer, the community must not hand the slayer over to him, because the slayer struck down their neighbor unintentionally and without any prior hostility.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The accused shall remain in that city until he stands before the assembly for judgment and until the death of the high priest who serves in that time. Afterward, the slayer may return to his own city and his own home, to the city from which he fled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They designated Kedesh in Galilee, located in the hill country of Naphtali, Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, and Kiriath-arba (which is Hebron) in the hill country of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eastern side of the Jordan River, near Jericho, they designated Bezer in the wilderness, on the plateau, from the territory of the tribe of Reuben; Ramoth in Gilead from the tribe of Gad; and Golan in Bashan from the tribe of Manasseh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These were the cities designated for all the Israelites and for the foreigners residing among them, so that anyone who unintentionally killed another person could flee there. They would not be put to death by the avenger of blood before standing trial before the community.</span></p>






</body></html>