<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\scgqs0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0f179977-6c77-3765-ded3-a62f7f2525a6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 23</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they informed David, saying, "Look, the Philistines are attacking Keilah and plundering the threshing floors."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David sought guidance from the LORD, asking, "Should I go and attack these Philistines?" The LORD replied to David, "Go, attack the Philistines, and rescue Keilah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David’s men said to him, “Look, we are already afraid here in Judah. How much more will we be if we go to Keilah to fight against the armies of the Philistines?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David inquired of the LORD once more. The LORD responded to him, saying, "Rise up, go down to Keilah, for I will hand the Philistines over to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David and his men went to Keilah, engaged in battle with the Philistines, and drove off their livestock. They struck them down with a great slaughter, and in this way, David delivered the people of Keilah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It happened that when Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, fled to David at Keilah, he brought an ephod with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul was informed that David had gone to Keilah. Saul said, "God has handed him over to me, for he has trapped himself by entering a town with gates and bars."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul summoned all the people to prepare for war, intending to march down to Keilah and lay siege to David and his men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David became aware that Saul was secretly plotting harm against him. He then said to Abiathar the priest, "Bring the ephod here."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David said, "O LORD, God of Israel, your servant has indeed heard that Saul is planning to come to Keilah to destroy the city because of me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Will the people of Keilah hand me over to him? Will Saul come down here, as I have heard? O LORD, God of Israel, I beg you, tell your servant. And the LORD answered, "He will come down."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David asked, "Will the men of Keilah hand me and my men over to Saul?" And the LORD answered, "They will indeed hand you over."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David and his men, numbering about six hundred, got up and left Keilah, traveling wherever they could go. When Saul was informed that David had escaped from Keilah, he decided not to pursue them further.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David stayed in the wilderness, taking refuge in fortified strongholds, and he remained on a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. Saul searched for him every day, but God did not allow David to fall into his hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David realized that Saul had come out to take his life, and David was in the wilderness of Ziph, staying in a wooded area.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan, the son of Saul, got up and went to David in the forest. There, he encouraged David and strengthened his faith in God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Jonathan said to him, "Do not be afraid, for my father Saul will not be able to harm you. You will become king over Israel, and I will serve as your second in command. Even my father Saul knows this to be true."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the two of them made a solemn agreement before the LORD. Afterward, David remained in the woods, while Jonathan returned to his home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Ziphites went to Saul at Gibeah and said, "Is David not hiding among us in the strongholds in the forest, on the hill of Hachilah, which is south of Jeshimon?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, O king, come down at your earliest convenience, as your heart desires, and we will ensure that he is handed over to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Saul said, "May you be blessed by the LORD, for you have shown kindness to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go now, I urge you, make thorough preparations. Investigate and find out where he hides and who has seen him there, for I have been told that he acts with great cunning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, carefully observe and identify all the hiding places where he conceals himself. Then return to me with reliable information, and I will go with you. If he is in the land, I will thoroughly search for him among all the clans of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They got up and went to Ziph ahead of Saul, while David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the arid region south of Jeshimon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul and his men also went out to search for him. When David was informed of this, he went down to a rocky area and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. Upon hearing this, Saul pursued David into the wilderness of Maon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul advanced on one side of the mountain, while David and his men were on the other side. David hurried to escape because he feared Saul, for Saul and his troops had surrounded David and his men, intending to capture them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But a messenger came to Saul and said, "Hurry and come quickly, for the Philistines have invaded the land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, Saul turned back from pursuing David and went to confront the Philistines. For this reason, they named that place Selahammahlekoth, meaning "Rock of Escape" or "Cliff of Separation."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David then left that place and settled in the fortified strongholds of En-gedi.</span></p>






</body></html>