<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 27</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\scgv1b.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:1fba526c-09ab-b336-c42c-f26ed6949754" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 27</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the start of the reign of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this message from the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "Make for yourself bonds and yokes, and place them on your neck."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Send them to the king of Edom, the king of Moab, the king of the Ammonites, the king of Tyre, and the king of Sidon, through the messengers who have come to Jerusalem to Zedekiah, the king of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instruct them to tell their leaders, "This is what the LORD of Hosts, the God of Israel, declares: This is what you must say to your leaders:"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have created the earth, along with humanity and the animals that dwell upon it, by my immense power and my outstretched might. I have given it to whomever I deemed fitting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now I have placed all these lands into the power of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, who serves my purposes. I have also given him dominion over the wild animals of the field to assist him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All nations will serve him, his son, and his grandson, until the appointed time for his land arrives. After that, many nations and powerful kings will turn and make him serve them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: Any nation or kingdom that refuses to serve Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, and will not submit to his authority, I will punish, declares the LORD. I will bring destruction upon them through war, famine, and plague, until I have completely handed them over to his power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, do not listen to your prophets, your fortune-tellers, your dream interpreters, your enchanters, or your sorcerers, who tell you, “You will not serve the king of Babylon.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are prophesying lies to you, intending to lead you far away from your land. Their aim is to cause me to drive you out, so that you will perish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the nations that willingly submit to the authority of the king of Babylon and serve him, I will allow to remain in their own land, declares the LORD. They will cultivate it and live there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also spoke to Zedekiah, the king of Judah, conveying this message: "Submit yourselves to the authority of the king of Babylon by placing your necks under his yoke. Serve him and his people, and you will live."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why do you and your people choose to perish by the sword, famine, and plague, just as the LORD has declared against any nation that refuses to submit to the king of Babylon?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, do not listen to the words of the prophets who say to you, “You will not serve the king of Babylon,” for they are prophesying lies to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares, "I did not send them, yet they prophesy lies in my name. Their purpose is to drive you out and bring about your destruction—both you and the prophets who speak these falsehoods to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also spoke to the priests and to all the people, saying, "This is what the LORD says: Do not listen to the words of your prophets who prophesy to you, saying, 'Look, the vessels of the LORD's house will soon be brought back from Babylon,' for they are prophesying lies to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not listen to them; instead, serve the king of Babylon and you will live. Why should this city be destroyed?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if they are truly prophets, and if the word of the LORD is with them, let them now plead with the LORD of hosts, so that the sacred vessels remaining in the house of the LORD, in the palace of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem, may not be taken away to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD of hosts declares concerning the pillars, the bronze sea, the stands, and the remaining vessels that are still left in this city:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon did not take when he exiled Jeconiah, the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah, from Jerusalem to Babylon, along with all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of Hosts, the God of Israel, declares concerning the sacred vessels that remain in the house of the LORD, and in the palace of the king of Judah and in Jerusalem:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will be taken to Babylon and will remain there until the day I come to deal with them, declares the LORD. At that time, I will bring them back and restore them to this land.</span></p>






</body></html>