<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\scjqfj.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d4ec8cb0-d878-f1a8-9afb-a397545dd4f1" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone sins by hearing a solemn oath being spoken and, though they are a witness—whether they have seen or know about the matter—they fail to speak up, then they will bear the guilt of their iniquity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone touches anything unclean—whether it is the carcass of an unclean wild animal, the carcass of unclean livestock, or the carcass of an unclean crawling creature—and it goes unnoticed by them, they will still be considered unclean and guilty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Or if someone comes into contact with any kind of human impurity—whatever kind of impurity that would defile a person—and it goes unnoticed by them, but later they become aware of it, they will be guilty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone makes a vow or takes an oath, whether to do something harmful or beneficial, and carelessly speaks it aloud without realizing the weight of their words, but later becomes aware of what they have sworn, they are guilty of breaking their oath in one of these matters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When someone becomes guilty of any of these offenses, they must openly acknowledge the sin they have committed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person must bring to the LORD a guilt offering for the sin they have committed—a female from the flock, either a lamb or a young goat, as a sin offering. The priest will then perform the act of atonement for them, reconciling them with God concerning their sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the person cannot afford to bring a lamb, they must bring, as their offering for the wrong they have committed, two turtledoves or two young pigeons to the LORD. One will serve as a sin offering, and the other as a burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall bring them to the priest, who will first offer the animal designated for the sin offering. The priest will then sever its head from its neck, but he must not completely separate the head from the body.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall sprinkle some of the blood of the sin offering on the side of the altar, and the remaining blood shall be drained out at the base of the altar. It is a sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall present the second bird as a burnt offering, following the prescribed procedure. The priest will then make atonement for him concerning the sin he has committed, and his sin will be forgiven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the person cannot afford to bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons, then the one who has sinned must bring as their offering a tenth of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering. They must not add oil to it or place any frankincense on it, because it is a sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the person shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take a handful of it as a memorial portion and burn it on the altar, as an offering made by fire to the LORD. It is a sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall perform the atonement for him concerning the sin he has committed in any of these matters, and it shall be forgiven him. The remainder shall belong to the priest, like a grain offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone unintentionally commits a wrong and sins by failing to fulfill their duties regarding the sacred things of the LORD, they must bring to the LORD as a restitution offering a ram without defect from the flock, valued according to the standard measure of silver shekels, based on the sanctuary shekel. This will serve as their guilt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person must make restitution for the wrong they have committed regarding the sacred property. They are to add a fifth of its value to the original amount and give it to the priest. The priest will then make atonement for them using the ram of the guilt offering, and they will be forgiven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone sins and violates any of the commands of the LORD by doing what is forbidden—even if they were unaware of it—they are still guilty and must bear the consequences of their wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person shall bring an unblemished ram from the flock, valued according to your assessment, as a guilt offering to the priest. The priest will then make atonement for him regarding the unintentional wrong he committed without realizing it, and he will be forgiven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is a guilt offering; he has indeed committed an offense against the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>