<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\scn249.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7183e47f-e601-cd80-b8ad-601b9cf52cbe" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a person is found dead in the land that the LORD your God is giving you to possess, lying in the open country, and it is not known who killed them,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then your elders and judges shall come forward, and they shall measure the distance to the cities that are near the place where the slain person was found.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it shall be that the elders of the city nearest to the slain man shall take a young cow that has never been used for work or worn a yoke.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The elders of that city shall bring the heifer down to a rugged valley, a place that has not been plowed or planted, and there in the valley, they shall break the heifer’s neck.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests, who are descendants of Levi, shall come forward, for the LORD your God has chosen them to serve Him and to pronounce blessings in His name. By their decision, every dispute and every case of injury shall be settled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the elders of the city nearest to the slain man must wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in the valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will respond and declare, "Our hands have not shed this blood, nor have our eyes witnessed it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Show mercy, O LORD, to your people Israel, whom you have redeemed, and do not hold innocent blood against your people Israel. Then the guilt of that bloodshed will be forgiven them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, you will remove the guilt of shedding innocent blood from your midst by doing what is right in the eyes of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you go out to battle against your enemies, and the LORD your God delivers them into your hands, and you take them captive,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you see among the prisoners a beautiful woman and are drawn to her, desiring to take her as your wife,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall bring her into your home, and she shall shave her head and trim her nails.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She must remove the clothing she wore as a captive and stay in your household, mourning for her father and mother for a full month. After that, you may marry her and become her husband, and she will be your wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you are not pleased with her, you must let her go wherever she wishes. However, you are not permitted to sell her for money or treat her as a commodity, for you have already taken advantage of her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man has two wives, one loved and the other unloved, and both have borne him children, whether the loved wife or the unloved wife, and if the firstborn son belongs to the unloved wife,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the time comes for a man to pass on his inheritance to his sons, he must not show favoritism by giving the rights of the firstborn to the son of his favored wife over the son of his less-favored wife, if the latter is truly the firstborn. Instead, he must acknowledge the firstborn son, even if he is the child of the less-favored wife, and grant him the double portion that is his rightful inheritance as the firstborn.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, he must recognize the son of the unloved wife as the firstborn by giving him a double share of all that he possesses. This is because the firstborn represents the beginning of his father’s strength; the right of the firstborn belongs to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man has a son who is stubborn and rebellious, who refuses to obey the voice of his father or the voice of his mother, and even after they discipline him, he still does not listen to them,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then his father and mother shall take hold of him and bring him out to the elders of his city, to the gate of his town.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will say to the elders of his town, "This son of ours is stubborn and rebellious; he refuses to listen to us. He is a glutton and a drunkard."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the men of his town shall stone him to death. In this way, you will remove the evil from your midst, and all Israel will hear of it and be filled with fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone has committed a sin deserving of death and is sentenced to die, and you hang them on a tree,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The body of the one who is hanged must not remain on the tree overnight; you must bury him on the same day. (For anyone who is hanged is under God’s curse.) Do this so that your land, which the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance, will not be defiled.</span></p>






</body></html>