<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\scooa3.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:21079a49-6568-f6af-29ba-366601c36a07" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ben-hadad, the king of Syria, assembled his entire army, accompanied by thirty-two allied kings, along with their horses and chariots. He advanced and laid siege to Samaria, engaging in battle against it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He sent messengers to Ahab, the king of Israel, in the city, and said to him, "This is what Ben-hadad says:"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your silver and your gold belong to me; your wives and your children, even the finest among them, are mine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel replied, "My lord, O king, as you have said, I am yours, and all that I possess is yours as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The messengers returned and said, "This is what Ben-hadad says: 'Even though I sent word to you demanding your silver, your gold, your wives, and your children, now I will send my servants to you tomorrow at this time, and they will search your house and the houses of your servants. Whatever they find valuable, they will seize and take away.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will send my servants to you tomorrow at this same time, and they will thoroughly search your house and the houses of your officials. Whatever you value and find pleasing, they will seize and take away with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king of Israel summoned all the elders of the land and said, "Please take note and see how this man is intent on causing trouble. He sent messengers to demand my wives, my children, my silver, and my gold, and I did not refuse him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all the elders and all the people replied to him, "Do not listen to him, nor agree with his words."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, he said to the messengers of Ben-hadad, "Tell my lord the king, 'Everything you first demanded of your servant, I will do. But this thing I cannot do.'" The messengers left and reported this back to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009419"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ben-hadad sent a message to him, saying, "May the gods deal severely with me, and even more so, if there is enough dust left in Samaria to fill the hands of all the people who follow me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009420"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel replied, "Tell him, 'Do not let the one who is putting on his armor boast like the one who is taking it off.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009421"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Ben-hadad received this message, he was drinking with the kings in their tents. He immediately said to his servants, "Prepare for battle." So they positioned themselves to attack the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Suddenly, a prophet approached Ahab, the king of Israel, and declared, "This is what the LORD says: Have you seen this vast army? Today, I will hand them over to you, and you will know that I am the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahab asked, "By whom will this be done?" The prophet replied, "This is what the LORD says: It will be carried out by the young officers of the provincial leaders." Ahab then asked, "Who will lead the battle?" The prophet answered, "You will."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he counted the young men who were leaders of the provinces, and they numbered two hundred and thirty-two. After them, he counted all the people, that is, all the Israelites, and they numbered seven thousand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At midday, they went out. Meanwhile, Ben-hadad and the thirty-two kings who were his allies were drinking themselves drunk in their tents.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The young officers of the provincial leaders went out first. Ben-hadad sent scouts, and they reported to him, saying, "Men have come out from Samaria."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He instructed, "If they come out seeking peace, capture them alive; if they come out for battle, capture them alive as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So these young men, who were officials of the provincial leaders, came out of the city, accompanied by the army that followed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each of them struck down his opponent, and the Syrians fled. The Israelites pursued them, and King Ben-hadad of Syria managed to escape on horseback, along with some of his cavalry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel went out and attacked the horses and chariots, inflicting a great defeat on the Syrians, causing heavy casualties among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prophet approached the king of Israel and said to him, "Go and prepare yourself. Be alert and consider carefully what you must do, for when the year turns, the king of Aram will march against you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The officials of the king of Syria said to him, "Their gods are gods of the mountains; that is why they were stronger than we were. But if we fight against them on the flat plains, surely we will be stronger than they are."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do this: Remove the kings, each from his position, and appoint commanders in their places.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Assemble another army, equal in size to the one you lost, with the same number of horses and chariots. Then we will fight them on the open plain, and surely we will be stronger than they are." He listened to their advice and followed it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the beginning of the year, Ben-hadad mustered the Aramean forces and marched to Aphek to wage war against Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites were counted and assembled, and they advanced to confront them. The Israelites camped opposite the Syrians, appearing like two small flocks of young goats, while the Syrians had spread out and filled the entire countryside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man of God came and spoke to the king of Israel, saying, "This is what the LORD says: Because the Syrians have claimed, 'The LORD is the God of the hills, but not the God of the valleys,' I will hand over this entire great army to you. Then you will know that I am the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They camped opposite each other for seven days. Then, on the seventh day, the battle began. The Israelites struck down one hundred thousand Syrian foot soldiers in a single day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining forces retreated to Aphek, into the city, where a wall collapsed, killing twenty-seven thousand of the men who were left. Ben-hadad fled and took refuge in the city, hiding in an inner room.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His servants said to him, "Listen, we have heard that the kings of Israel are merciful rulers. Please, let us put on sackcloth around our waists and ropes on our heads, and go out to the king of Israel. Perhaps he will spare your life."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they wrapped sackcloth around their waists and put ropes on their heads as a sign of submission. They went to the king of Israel and said, "Your servant Ben-hadad pleads with you, saying, 'Please, let me live.'" The king of Israel replied, "Is he still alive? He is like a brother to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men watched carefully to see if any sign would come from him, and they quickly took hold of it. They said, "Your brother Ben-hadad is here." He replied, "Go and bring him." So Ben-hadad came out to him, and he had him brought up into the chariot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ben-hadad said to him, "I will return the cities that my father took from your father, and you may establish trading districts for yourself in Damascus, just as my father did in Samaria." Ahab replied, "I will release you under the terms of this agreement." So they made a covenant, and Ahab sent him away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man from among the sons of the prophets said to his companion, speaking by the command of the LORD, "Strike me, I beg you." But the man refused to strike him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to him, "Because you have not obeyed the voice of the LORD, as soon as you leave me, a lion will kill you." And as soon as he departed from him, a lion came upon him and killed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he encountered another man and said, "Please strike me." So the man struck him, and in doing so, inflicted a wound.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the prophet left and positioned himself along the road to wait for the king. He disguised himself by smearing ashes on his face.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the king was passing by, the man called out to him and said, "Your servant went out into the heat of the battle, and suddenly a man turned aside and brought another man to me, saying, 'Guard this man. If he goes missing for any reason, your life will be required in place of his, or you must pay a talent of silver as compensation.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And while your servant was occupied with various tasks, the man disappeared. The king of Israel said to him, "This is your judgment; you have pronounced it yourself."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He quickly wiped the ashes from his face, and the king of Israel recognized him as one of the prophets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to him, "This is what the LORD declares: Because you have released from your hand a man I had designated for complete destruction, your life will be forfeited in place of his life, and your people will suffer in place of his people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel returned to his palace deeply troubled and resentful, and he went back to Samaria.</span></p>






</body></html>