<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 48</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\scpe4a.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:58a4d1ec-6670-9cff-3298-473732fdec60" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 48</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the names of the tribes. Starting from the northern boundary, along the road to Hethlon, extending toward Hamath and Hazar-enan, which marks the border of Damascus to the north, and reaching to the boundary of Hamath—this area lies to the east and west. This portion belongs to the tribe of Dan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And along the boundary of Dan, from the eastern side to the western side, a portion of land shall belong to Asher.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And along the boundary of Asher, from the eastern side to the western side, a portion shall belong to Naphtali.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And along the boundary of Naphtali, from the eastern side to the western side, a portion shall belong to Manasseh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And along the boundary of Manasseh, from the eastern side to the western side, there shall be a designated portion for Ephraim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And along the boundary of Ephraim, from the eastern side to the western side, there shall be a designated portion for Reuben.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And along the boundary of Reuben, from the eastern side to the western side, there shall be a designated portion for Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Along the boundary of Judah, from the eastern side to the western side, will be the sacred portion that you are to set apart. It will measure twenty-five thousand reeds in width, and its length will be equal to one of the tribal portions, extending from the eastern side to the western side. The sanctuary will be located at its center.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The offering that you shall present to the LORD shall measure twenty-five thousand units in length and ten thousand units in width.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the priests, this sacred portion shall be set apart: to the north, it shall measure twenty-five thousand units in length, and to the west, ten thousand units in width; to the east, it shall also measure ten thousand units in width, and to the south, twenty-five thousand units in length. The sanctuary of the LORD shall be situated at its center.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This portion shall belong to the priests who are consecrated from the descendants of Zadok—those who faithfully carried out my instructions and did not go astray when the people of Israel strayed, as the Levites did.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This portion of the land that is set apart shall be considered most sacred for them, adjoining the territory of the Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Adjacent to the territory designated for the priests, the Levites shall have an area measuring twenty-five thousand cubits in length and ten thousand cubits in width. The entire length shall be twenty-five thousand cubits, and the width ten thousand cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They must not sell any of it, nor trade it, nor transfer the firstfruits of the land to others, for they are sacred to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining area, five thousand cubits in width, adjacent to the twenty-five thousand cubits, shall be designated as common land for the city, serving as space for dwellings and open areas. The city itself shall be situated at the center of this land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the measurements of the area: the north side will be four thousand five hundred units, the south side will be four thousand five hundred units, the east side will be four thousand five hundred units, and the west side will be four thousand five hundred units.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The open land surrounding the city shall extend outward two hundred and fifty cubits to the north, two hundred and fifty cubits to the south, two hundred and fifty cubits to the east, and two hundred and fifty cubits to the west.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining area, extending lengthwise alongside the sacred portion, shall measure ten thousand cubits to the east and ten thousand cubits to the west. It shall run parallel to the sacred portion, and its produce shall provide food for those who serve the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And those who are assigned to work for the city shall come from all the tribes of Israel to fulfill their duties.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire sacred offering shall measure twenty-five thousand cubits by twenty-five thousand cubits. You shall present the holy offering as a perfect square, including the portion designated for the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining portion shall belong to the ruler, on both sides of the sacred offering and the city’s property, adjacent to the twenty-five thousand cubits of the offering toward the eastern border and westward, adjacent to the twenty-five thousand cubits toward the western border, parallel to the ruler’s allotted portions. This shall be the sacred offering, and the sanctuary of the temple shall be situated at its center.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the portion belonging to the Levites and the portion belonging to the city, which lies within the area designated for the prince—situated between the territory of Judah and the territory of Benjamin—shall belong to the prince.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for the remaining tribes, from the eastern border to the western border, Benjamin will receive its allotted portion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And along the boundary of Benjamin, from the eastern side to the western side, the tribe of Simeon will receive its allotted portion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And along the boundary of Simeon, from the eastern side to the western side, Issachar shall have its allotted portion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And along the boundary of Issachar, from the eastern side to the western side, Zebulun shall have its allotted portion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And along the boundary of Zebulun, from the eastern side to the western side, Gad shall have his allotted portion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boundary of Gad will extend southward, starting from Tamar and reaching to the waters of Meribah at Kadesh, then continuing along the river to the Mediterranean Sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the land that you are to distribute by lot as an inheritance to the tribes of Israel, and these are their allotted portions, declares the Sovereign LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And these are the boundaries of the city on the north side, extending four thousand five hundred units of measure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The city gates will be named after the tribes of Israel: three gates on the north side—one named for Reuben, one for Judah, and one for Levi.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the east side, the measurement was four thousand five hundred cubits, with three gates: the gate of Joseph, the gate of Benjamin, and the gate of Dan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the south side, the measurement was four thousand five hundred cubits, with three gates: the gate of Simeon, the gate of Issachar, and the gate of Zebulun.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the west side, the measurement was four thousand five hundred cubits, with three gates: one gate for Gad, one gate for Asher, and one gate for Naphtali.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The area surrounding the city measured approximately eighteen thousand units. From that day forward, the name of the city will be "The LORD Is There."</span></p>






</body></html>