<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\scs2k1.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:16640856-9c93-5f6c-20b3-570c378bed19" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Celebrate the month of Abib and observe the Passover in honor of the LORD your God, for in the month of Abib the LORD your God brought you out of Egypt during the night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must therefore offer the Passover sacrifice to the LORD your God, from the flock or the herd, in the place where the LORD chooses to establish his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not eat any bread made with yeast during this time. For seven days, you are to eat unleavened bread, the bread of hardship, because you left the land of Egypt in great haste. This is so you will remember the day you came out of Egypt for the rest of your life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For seven days, no leavened bread shall be found anywhere within your territory. Furthermore, none of the meat from the sacrifice you offered on the first day in the evening shall remain overnight until morning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are not permitted to offer the Passover sacrifice within any of your towns that the LORD your God is giving you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, at the location where the LORD your God will choose to establish his name, there you must offer the Passover sacrifice in the evening, at sunset, at the appointed time when you came out of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall roast and eat it in the place that the LORD your God will select. Then, in the morning, you may return and go to your homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For six days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there shall be a sacred gathering in honor of the LORD your God. On that day, you must not do any work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to count off seven weeks for yourself. Begin counting the seven weeks from the time you first start to harvest the grain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to celebrate the Festival of Weeks in honor of the LORD your God by bringing a voluntary offering from your hand, in proportion to how the LORD your God has blessed you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall celebrate with joy in the presence of the LORD your God—you, your sons and daughters, your male and female servants, the Levites living in your towns, as well as the foreigners, the fatherless, and the widows among you—in the place where the LORD your God has chosen to establish his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and you are to carefully follow and carry out these decrees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must celebrate the Festival of Tabernacles for seven days, after you have gathered in your grain and your wine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall celebrate your festival with joy—you, your son, your daughter, your male servant, your female servant, the Levite, the foreigner, the fatherless, and the widow who live within your community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For seven days, you are to celebrate a sacred festival in honor of the LORD your God at the place He will designate. This is because the LORD your God will bless you in all your harvest and in everything you undertake. Therefore, you must rejoice wholeheartedly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All your men must present themselves before the LORD your God three times a year at the place He will choose: during the Festival of Unleavened Bread, the Festival of Weeks, and the Festival of Tabernacles. They must not come before the LORD empty-handed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each person must give according to their ability, in proportion to the blessing that the LORD your God has granted you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must appoint judges and officials in all the towns that the LORD your God is giving you, according to your tribes. They are to judge the people with fair and righteous decisions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not distort justice; you must not show partiality or accept a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the discerning and twists the words of the upright.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must pursue what is completely just, so that you may live and take possession of the land that the LORD your God is giving you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not plant any kind of tree as a sacred grove near the altar of the LORD your God that you will build.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not set up any carved image or idol, for the LORD your God detests such things.</span></p>






</body></html>