<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 26</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\scvpda.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f966c081-2d20-05a3-e3f0-e79754100105" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 26</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, this song will be sung in the land of Judah: "We have a city of strength; God will establish salvation as our walls and fortifications."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Open the gates, so that the righteous nation, which remains faithful to the truth, may enter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will keep in perfect peace the one whose thoughts are fixed on you, because they trust in you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Place your trust in the LORD forever, for in the LORD JEHOVAH is an unending source of strength.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For He brings down those who live in pride; the exalted city, He humbles it; He brings it low, even to the ground; He reduces it to the dust.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ground will be trampled underfoot, even by the feet of the poor and the steps of the destitute.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The path of the righteous is marked by integrity; you, O perfectly upright One, carefully examine the way of the just.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, in the path of your judgments, O LORD, we have waited for you; the deepest longing of our soul is for your name and for the remembrance of you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">With all my heart, I have longed for you during the night; yes, with my innermost being, I will earnestly seek you at the break of day. For when your judgments are carried out on the earth, the people of the world will come to understand what it means to live in righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if kindness is shown to the wicked, they still will not learn righteousness. In a land where justice prevails, they will act unjustly and fail to recognize the majesty of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Lord, when you raise your hand in judgment, they fail to recognize it. But they will indeed see and be filled with shame because of their jealousy toward your people. Yes, the fire meant for your enemies will consume them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">LORD, you will establish peace for us, for you have also accomplished all that we have done through us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD our God, other rulers besides you have held power over us, but we will honor and proclaim your name alone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are dead and will not live again; they are lifeless and will not rise. Therefore, you have come and utterly destroyed them, wiping out all remembrance of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have expanded the nation, O LORD; you have made the nation grow. You are honored and glorified. You have extended its reach to the farthest corners of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Lord, in times of distress they sought You; when Your discipline came upon them, they poured out their prayers to You.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as a pregnant woman, when her time to give birth draws near, experiences pain and cries out in the throes of labor, so have we been in your presence, O LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have labored and endured great suffering, yet it feels as though we have given birth to nothing but emptiness. Our efforts have not brought about deliverance for the land, nor have the people of the world been brought to their knees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your deceased will come back to life; along with my lifeless body, they will rise again. Awaken and rejoice, you who rest in the dust, for your dew is like the dew of new growth, and the earth will bring forth the dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Come, my people, enter into your rooms and close your doors behind you. Hide yourselves for a brief moment, until the time of wrath has passed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the LORD is coming forth from His dwelling place to bring judgment upon the inhabitants of the earth for their wrongdoing. The earth itself will reveal the bloodshed it has concealed and will no longer hide its slain.</span></p>






</body></html>