<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 41</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sd2u2h.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b93c1741-17c7-e9bc-3fe4-5e5ddc5e7229" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 41</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be silent before me, you islands; and let the nations regain their strength. Let them approach; then let them speak. Let us draw near together to present our case.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who brought forth the righteous one from the east, summoning him to follow in His steps? Who delivered nations into his hands and enabled him to subdue kings? He made them like dust before his sword, like scattered chaff before his bow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He pursued them and passed through safely, even by a path he had never walked before.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who has accomplished and carried this out, summoning the generations from the very beginning? It is I, the LORD—the first and the last; I am He.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The distant coastlands saw it and were filled with dread; the farthest reaches of the earth trembled with fear. They approached and gathered together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They supported one another, each helping their neighbor, and everyone encouraged their fellow, saying, "Take heart and be strong."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the woodworker encouraged the metalworker, and the one who smooths with the hammer encouraged the one who strikes the anvil, saying, "It is ready for soldering." Then he secured it with nails so that it would not wobble or shift.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you, Israel, are my servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen, the descendants of Abraham, my beloved friend.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You whom I have taken from the farthest corners of the earth, whom I summoned from its most prominent leaders, and to whom I declared, "You are my servant; I have chosen you and have not rejected you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be afraid, for I am with you; do not be discouraged, for I am your God. I will give you strength; yes, I will help you; yes, I will support you with the power of my righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, all those who were angered against you will be put to shame and disgraced; they will become as nothing, and those who contend with you will be destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will search for them but will not find them—those who opposed you. Those who waged war against you will become as nothing, as if they never existed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I, the LORD your God, will take hold of your right hand and say to you, "Do not be afraid; I will help you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be afraid, you insignificant worm Jacob, and you people of Israel; I will help you, declares the LORD, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will fashion you into a sharp, new threshing tool with cutting edges. You will crush the mountains and grind them to dust; you will reduce the hills to mere husks, like chaff blown away by the wind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will winnow them, and the wind will sweep them away; the whirlwind will scatter them. Then you will rejoice in the LORD and take pride in the Holy One of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the poor and needy search for water, and there is none to be found, and their tongues are parched with thirst, I, the LORD, will answer them. I, the God of Israel, will not abandon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause rivers to flow in the highlands and springs to rise in the valleys. I will turn the wilderness into pools of water and the parched land into bubbling springs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will plant in the barren wilderness the cedar, the acacia, the myrtle, and the olive tree; I will establish in the desert the fir tree, the pine, and the cypress together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that they may see, recognize, reflect upon, and comprehend together that it is the hand of the Lord that has accomplished this, and the Holy One of Israel who has brought it into being.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Present your case, says the LORD; present your strongest arguments, says the King of Jacob.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let them present their case and reveal to us what is to come. Let them disclose past events, so that we may examine them and understand their outcome. Or let them announce future events, so that we may know what lies ahead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Reveal the events that are to come in the future, so that we may recognize that you are indeed divine. Whether you bring about good or cause harm, let us witness it and be in awe, so that we may observe it together and be astonished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, you are nothing, and your deeds are worthless. Anyone who chooses you is detestable.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have summoned one from the north, and he will come; from the east, he will call on my name. He will advance against rulers as if they were mortar, trampling them like a potter treading clay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who has proclaimed this from the beginning, so that we might understand? Or who has announced it beforehand, so that we could say, "He is just"? Indeed, no one has revealed it; no one has declared it; no one has heard your words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The first will proclaim to Zion, "Look, they are here!" And I will appoint a messenger to Jerusalem who will bring good news.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked, and there was no one to be found; even among them, there was no advisor who, when I inquired, could offer a single word in response.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, all of them are meaningless; their deeds amount to nothing. Their idols, crafted from metal, are as empty as the wind and bring only chaos.</span></p>






</body></html>