<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Daniel Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sd40sy.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3a6f68b4-096f-00b2-3fcb-92ef9c9785f9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Daniel Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Darius decided to appoint 120 officials to oversee the entire kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And over these three officials, Daniel was the chief, so that the governors might report to them, and the king would not suffer any loss.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Daniel was promoted above the chief administrators and officials because he possessed an exceptional spirit. As a result, the king considered placing him in charge of the entire kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the high officials and administrators sought to find grounds for accusing Daniel regarding his conduct in the kingdom, but they could find no basis for charges or any fault in him, because he was trustworthy, and no negligence or corruption could be found in him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then these men said, "We will not find any basis for accusation against this Daniel unless we find something against him concerning the law of his God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then these officials and governors gathered together and approached the king, saying to him, "King Darius, may you live forever!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the high officials of the kingdom—the administrators, governors, advisers, and military commanders—have come together and agreed to issue a royal decree, establishing a binding law: For the next thirty days, anyone who prays to or petitions any god or person other than you, O king, shall be thrown into the lions' den.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, Your Majesty, issue the decree and put it in writing so that it cannot be changed, in accordance with the law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot be revoked.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, King Darius signed the document and the decree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Daniel learned that the decree had been signed, he went to his house. His upper room had windows that faced toward Jerusalem, and there he knelt down three times a day to pray and give thanks to his God, just as he had always done before.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then these men gathered together and discovered Daniel praying and earnestly seeking favor before his God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they approached and spoke to the king about the decree he had issued: "Have you not signed a decree stating that for thirty days, anyone who petitions any god or person other than you, O king, shall be thrown into the lions' den?" The king replied, "The matter is certain, in accordance with the law of the Medes and Persians, which cannot be changed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they responded to the king, saying, "Daniel, one of the exiles from Judah, pays no attention to you, O king, nor to the decree you have issued. He continues to pray to his God three times a day."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the king heard these words, he was deeply distressed and troubled within himself. He resolved to save Daniel and worked tirelessly until sunset to find a way to deliver him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then these men came together before the king and said to him, "Your Majesty, you should know that according to the law of the Medes and Persians, no decree or ordinance that the king establishes can be altered."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king gave the order, and they brought Daniel and threw him into the lions' den. The king said to Daniel, "May your God, whom you serve so faithfully, rescue you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A stone was brought and placed over the entrance to the den, and the king sealed it with his own signet ring and with the signet rings of his nobles. This was done to ensure that the decision regarding Daniel could not be altered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king returned to his palace and spent the night without eating. No musical instruments were brought before him, and he could not sleep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king got up very early in the morning and hurried to the lions' den.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrived at the den, he called out to Daniel in a voice filled with anguish. The king spoke and said, "Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God, whom you serve faithfully, been able to rescue you from the lions?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Daniel said to the king, "May the king live forever!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My God has sent His angel and closed the lions' mouths so that they could not harm me, because I was found innocent before Him. Moreover, I have done no wrong before you, O king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king was overjoyed for Daniel and immediately ordered that he be brought up from the den. So Daniel was lifted out of the den, and no injury whatsoever was found on him, for he had trusted in his God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king gave the order, and they brought the men who had accused Daniel. They were thrown into the lions' den, along with their children and their wives. Before they even reached the bottom of the den, the lions overpowered them and crushed all their bones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Darius wrote to all peoples, nations, and languages living throughout the earth: May your peace be abundant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I hereby issue a decree that in every region of my kingdom, people must tremble and show reverence before the God of Daniel. For He is the living God, enduring forever. His kingdom will never be destroyed, and His dominion will last to the very end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He saves and rescues, performing miracles and wonders in both heaven and on earth. He is the one who delivered Daniel from the power of the lions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Thus, Daniel continued to thrive and succeed during the reign of Darius and into the reign of Cyrus the Persian.</span></p>






</body></html>