<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sd5ufm.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:aa82018a-1e0e-a0cd-64a8-c0dc2410db51" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Samuel, "How long will you grieve over Saul, since I have rejected him from being king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil and go, for I am sending you to Jesse of Bethlehem, because I have chosen one of his sons to be king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel replied, "How can I go? If Saul hears about it, he will kill me." But the LORD said, "Take a young cow with you and say, 'I have come to offer a sacrifice to the LORD.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Summon Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will reveal to you what you must do. You are to anoint for me the one I designate to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel did as the LORD had instructed and went to Bethlehem. When the elders of the town saw him coming, they were filled with fear and asked, "Have you come in peace?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "In peace. I have come to offer a sacrifice to the LORD. Prepare yourselves and join me in the offering." Then he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived, Samuel looked at Eliab and thought, "Surely the one the LORD has chosen stands here before Him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the LORD said to Samuel, "Do not look at his appearance or his physical stature, for I have rejected him. The LORD does not see as humans see; people judge by outward appearance, but the LORD looks at the heart."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jesse called Abinadab and had him come forward before Samuel. But Samuel said, "The LORD has not chosen this one either."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jesse presented Shammah, but the Lord said, "I have not chosen this one either."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, Jesse presented seven of his sons before Samuel. But Samuel said to Jesse, "The LORD has not chosen any of these."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel asked Jesse, "Are all your sons here?" Jesse replied, "There is still the youngest one left; he is out tending the sheep." Samuel said to Jesse, "Send for him and bring him here, because we will not proceed until he arrives."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he sent for him and brought him in. He had a healthy, reddish complexion, with a handsome face and a fine appearance. Then the LORD said, "Rise and anoint him, for this is the one."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed David in the presence of his brothers. From that day onward, the Spirit of the LORD powerfully came upon David. After this, Samuel got up and returned to Ramah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Spirit of the LORD withdrew from Saul, and a harmful spirit sent by the LORD began to torment him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul's attendants said to him, "Look, an evil spirit sent by God is tormenting you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let our lord now command your servants who are here before you to find a man skilled in playing the harp. Then, when the distressing spirit from God comes upon you, he will play with his hand, and you will feel relief.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said to his attendants, "Find me a man who is skilled in playing the lyre, and bring him to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then one of the servants spoke up and said, "I have seen a son of Jesse from Bethlehem who is skilled in playing the lyre. He is a brave and mighty warrior, wise in his decisions, and handsome in appearance. Moreover, the LORD is with him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, "Send me your son David, who is tending the sheep."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread, a skin of wine, and a young goat, and sent them with his son David to Saul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David went to Saul and presented himself before him. Saul grew very fond of David, and David became his armor-bearer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul sent a message to Jesse, saying, "Please allow David to remain in my presence, for he has gained my favor."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the distressing spirit sent by God came upon Saul, David would take up his harp and play it with his hand. This brought relief to Saul, and he would feel better, for the distressing spirit would leave him.</span></p>






</body></html>