<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sd9f0g.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:076a39ea-ee6c-24c4-e9c7-809d513bca1d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Jehoram, the son of Ahab, became king over Israel in Samaria during the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah. He reigned for twelve years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed evil in the eyes of the LORD, though not to the same extent as his father and mother had done, for he removed the idol of Baal that his father had made.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, he persisted in following the sinful practices of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, which led Israel into sin. He did not turn away from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mesha, the king of Moab, was a breeder of sheep. He paid tribute to the king of Israel by delivering one hundred thousand lambs and one hundred thousand rams, along with their wool.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Ahab died, the king of Moab rose up in rebellion against the king of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Jehoram departed from Samaria at that time and mustered all the forces of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He then went and sent a message to Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, saying, "The king of Moab has rebelled against me. Will you join me in battle against Moab?" Jehoshaphat replied, "I will go with you. My people are as your people, my horses as your horses."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He asked, "Which route should we take?" The reply came, "The path through the wilderness of Edom."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the king of Israel, the king of Judah, and the king of Edom set out together. They traveled in a circuitous route for seven days, but there was no water for the army or for the livestock that accompanied them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel exclaimed, "Oh no! The LORD has brought these three kings together only to hand us over to Moab!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jehoshaphat asked, "Is there not a prophet of the LORD here, so that we may seek guidance from the LORD through him?" One of the servants of the king of Israel replied, "Elisha son of Shaphat is here, the one who served as Elijah's attendant."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat said, "The word of the LORD is truly with him." So the king of Israel, Jehoshaphat, and the king of Edom went down to meet him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha said to the king of Israel, "What do I have to do with you? Go consult the prophets of your father and the prophets of your mother." But the king of Israel replied, "No, for the LORD has summoned these three kings together to hand them over to Moab."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha replied, "As surely as the LORD of hosts lives, before whom I stand, if it were not for my respect for Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, I would not pay attention to you or even acknowledge you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Now, bring me a musician." And when the musician began to play, the power of the LORD came upon him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "This is what the LORD declares: Dig trenches throughout this valley."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: You will not see any wind, nor will you see any rain, yet that valley will be filled with water, so that you, your livestock, and your animals may drink.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This matter is of little significance in the eyes of the LORD; He will also hand over the Moabites to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to attack every fortified city and every prominent town, cut down every fruitful tree, block up all the springs of water, and ruin every fertile field by covering it with stones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Early in the morning, when the grain offering was presented, suddenly water began to flow from the direction of Edom, and the land was completely flooded with water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all the Moabites heard that the kings had come to wage war against them, they assembled everyone who was capable of bearing arms, from the youngest to the oldest, and took their positions at the border.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They got up early in the morning, and as the sun rose, its light reflected on the water. When the Moabites looked across, they saw the water appearing as red as blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "This is blood! The kings must have been killed, and they have struck each other down. Now, Moab, seize the opportunity to plunder!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived at the Israelite camp, the Israelites rose up and attacked the Moabites, causing them to flee before them. The Israelites pursued them, striking down the Moabites as they advanced, even into the territory of Moab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They destroyed the cities, and on every fertile field, each man threw stones until the land was covered with them, rendering it unusable. They also stopped up all the wells of water and cut down all the good trees. Only in Kir-haraseth did they leave the stones in place, but the slingers surrounded the city and attacked it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the king of Moab realized that the battle was going badly for him, he gathered seven hundred armed men who were skilled with swords, intending to break through the enemy lines to reach the king of Edom. However, they were unable to succeed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he took his eldest son, who was to succeed him as king, and offered him as a burnt offering on the wall. This act provoked great outrage against Israel, so they withdrew from him and returned to their own land.</span></p>






</body></html>