<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nehemiah Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdbqhd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7007c9c2-7c64-8ed4-2ebc-23406f36208e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nehemiah Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Eliashib the high priest, along with his fellow priests, took action and rebuilt the Sheep Gate. They consecrated it and installed its doors. They continued to consecrate the wall as far as the Tower of the Hundred and up to the Tower of Hananeel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to him, the men of Jericho built. And beside them, Zaccur, the son of Imri, built.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Fish Gate was rebuilt by the sons of Hassenaah. They constructed its framework, installed its doors, and fitted it with bolts and bars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to them, Meremoth, the son of Urijah and grandson of Koz, carried out repairs. Beside him, Meshullam, the son of Berechiah and grandson of Meshezabeel, also worked on the repairs. Next to them, Zadok, the son of Baana, contributed to the restoration efforts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to them, the people of Tekoa made repairs, but their leaders did not put their shoulders to the work of their Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, Jehoiada, the son of Paseah, and Meshullam, the son of Besodeiah, restored the Old Gate. They reinforced its structure by installing the beams, setting up the doors, and securing them with locks and bars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to them, Melatiah the Gibeonite and Jadon the Meronothite, along with the men of Gibeon and Mizpah, worked on the repairs up to the seat of the governor on the west side of the river.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to him, Uzziel, the son of Harhaiah, a goldsmith, carried out repairs. Beside him, Hananiah, the son of one of the perfumers, also worked on the repairs. Together, they strengthened Jerusalem as far as the broad wall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to them, Rephaiah son of Hur, who was the governor of half the district of Jerusalem, carried out repairs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to them, Jedaiah son of Harumaph made repairs, working on the section directly opposite his own house. Following him, Hattush son of Hashabniah also carried out repairs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Malchijah, the son of Harim, and Hashub, the son of Pahath-moab, restored another section of the wall, including the Tower of the Furnaces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to him, Shallum son of Halohesh, the leader of half the district of Jerusalem, carried out repairs, along with his daughters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hanun, along with the residents of Zanoah, repaired the Valley Gate. They rebuilt it, installed its doors, and secured it with locks and bars. They also restored a section of the wall extending a thousand cubits, reaching as far as the Dung Gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Malchiah, the son of Rechab, who was the leader of the district of Beth-haccerem, repaired the Dung Gate. He rebuilt it, installed its doors, and secured it with locks and bars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shallun, the son of Col-hozeh, who was the ruler of the district of Mizpah, repaired the Fountain Gate. He rebuilt it, roofed it, and installed its doors, bolts, and bars. He also restored the wall of the Pool of Siloam, near the king’s garden, extending it as far as the steps that descend from the City of David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After him, Nehemiah son of Azbuk, the leader of half the district of Beth-zur, carried out repairs. He worked on the section facing the tombs of David, extending to the artificial pool and reaching as far as the House of the Warriors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After him, the Levites carried out repairs, with Rehum son of Bani leading the work. Next to him, Hashabiah, the leader of half the district of Keilah, made repairs in his assigned section.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After him, their fellow workers made repairs, led by Bavai son of Henadad, who was the governor of half the district of Keilah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to him, Ezer the son of Jeshua, the leader of Mizpah, repaired another section of the wall. This portion faced the ascent to the armory, at the bend in the wall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After him, Baruch son of Zabbai diligently repaired another section, from the angle of the wall to the entrance of the house of Eliashib the high priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After him, Meremoth, the son of Urijah and grandson of Koz, repaired another section, extending from the entrance of Eliashib’s house to the far end of Eliashib’s house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After him, the priests made repairs, along with the men from the surrounding region.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After him, Benjamin and Hashub made repairs opposite their own house. Next to them, Azariah, the son of Maaseiah and grandson of Ananiah, carried out repairs near his own house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After him, Binnui son of Henadad repaired another section, from the house of Azariah to the bend in the wall, all the way to the corner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Palal, the son of Uzai, worked on the section opposite the angle of the wall and the tower that projects from the king’s upper palace, near the courtyard of the guard. Following him, Pedaiah, the son of Parosh, took up the work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the temple servants lived in Ophel, up to the area opposite the Water Gate on the east side, near the projecting tower.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After them, the people from Tekoa repaired another section of the wall, opposite the great projecting tower, extending as far as the wall of Ophel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests carried out repairs above the Horse Gate, each one working on the section directly opposite his own house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After them, Zadok son of Immer made repairs to the section opposite his own house. Following him, Shemaiah son of Shecaniah, who was the keeper of the East Gate, also carried out repairs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After him, Hananiah son of Shelemiah and Hanun, the sixth son of Zalaph, repaired another section. Following them, Meshullam son of Berechiah made repairs opposite his own living quarters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After him, Malchiah, the son of a goldsmith, made repairs up to the area of the temple servants and the merchants, opposite the Miphkad Gate, and as far as the upper section of the corner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from the corner of the wall to the Sheep Gate, the goldsmiths and the merchants carried out the repairs.</span></p>






</body></html>