<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ruth Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdcx3c.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:95a021b7-fb32-c5f1-7d5a-ac4b27295cae" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ruth Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Boaz went up to the city gate and sat down there. Just then, the relative of whom Boaz had spoken happened to pass by. Boaz called out to him, “Hey, my friend! Come over here and sit down.” So the man turned aside and sat down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He selected ten men from the city’s elders and said, “Sit here.” So they sat down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to the relative, "Naomi, who has returned from the land of Moab, is selling a portion of land that belonged to our brother Elimelech."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I intended to inform you, saying, "Purchase it in the presence of the local residents and the elders of my people. If you wish to redeem it, then redeem it; but if you do not wish to redeem it, let me know, so I may understand, for there is no one else to redeem it besides you, and I come after you." He replied, "I will redeem it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Boaz said, "On the day you acquire the field from Naomi, you must also acquire it from Ruth the Moabite, the widow of the deceased, in order to preserve the name of the dead through his inheritance."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The relative replied, "I cannot redeem it for myself, because doing so would jeopardize my own inheritance. You take over my right of redemption, for I am unable to redeem it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In earlier times in Israel, this was the customary practice regarding redemption and the transfer of rights to confirm any matter: a man would remove his sandal and give it to the other party. This act served as a legally binding testimony in Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the relative said to Boaz, “You may purchase it for yourself.” Then he removed his sandal as a sign of the agreement.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Boaz then addressed the elders and all the people, saying, "You are witnesses today that I have acquired everything that belonged to Elimelech, as well as all that was Chilion’s and Mahlon’s, from Naomi’s possession."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, Ruth the Moabite, the widow of Mahlon, I have acquired to be my wife, in order to restore the name of the deceased to his inheritance, so that his name may not be erased from among his family and from the community of his hometown. You are witnesses of this today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people who were at the city gate, along with the elders, declared, "We are witnesses. May the LORD make the woman who is entering your household like Rachel and Leah, who together built up the house of Israel. May you prosper in Ephrathah and gain renown in Bethlehem."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May your family be as prosperous as the family of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, through the descendants that the LORD will grant you by this young woman.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Boaz took Ruth as his wife, and when he was united with her, the LORD enabled her to conceive, and she gave birth to a son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The women said to Naomi, "Praise the LORD, who has not left you without a family redeemer today. May his name become renowned throughout Israel!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will bring renewal to your life and sustain you in your old age, for your daughter-in-law, who loves you and is more valuable to you than seven sons, has given birth to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Naomi took the child, held him close to her chest, and became his caretaker.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The women of the neighborhood celebrated and declared, "A son has been born to Naomi!" They named him Obed. He became the father of Jesse, who was the father of David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the descendants of Perez: Perez was the father of Hezron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezron became the father of Ram, and Ram became the father of Amminadab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amminadab was the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon was the father of Salmon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Salmon was the father of Boaz, and Boaz was the father of Obed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Obed became the father of Jesse, and Jesse became the father of David.</span></p>






</body></html>