<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdeema.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5d44c5b4-cf85-b2ac-8646-b853000d06b7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and tell them: When you enter the land where you will settle, the land I am giving to you,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present an offering by fire to the LORD—a burnt offering, a sacrifice to fulfill a vow, a freewill offering, or an offering during your appointed festivals—to produce a pleasing aroma to the LORD, whether from the herd or the flock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When someone presents an offering to the LORD, they must bring a grain offering consisting of two quarts of fine flour mixed with one quart of olive oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall prepare a quarter of a hin of wine as a drink offering to accompany the burnt offering or sacrifice for each lamb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For a ram, you shall prepare a grain offering consisting of two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with one-third of a hin of oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the drink offering, you shall present one-third of a hin of wine as a pleasing aroma to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you prepare a bull as a burnt offering, or as a sacrifice to fulfill a vow, or as a peace offering to the LORD,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he shall bring a bull as an offering, along with a grain offering consisting of three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with half a hin of oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall also present as a drink offering half a hin of wine, as a fire offering, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the procedure to be followed for each bull, each ram, each lamb, or each young goat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must prepare and perform the same for each one according to their assigned number.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All who are native to the land must follow these instructions in the same way when presenting an offering made by fire, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a foreigner resides among you, or anyone living among you throughout your generations, and they wish to present an offering made by fire, a pleasing aroma to the LORD, they must do so in the same manner as you do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The same rule shall apply to both you, the members of the community, and to the foreigner residing among you. This is a permanent statute for all your generations: as you are, so shall the foreigner be before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There shall be one law and one standard of conduct for you and for the foreigner residing among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and tell them: When you enter the land to which I am bringing you,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you eat the produce of the land, you shall present a special offering to the LORD as a contribution.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present a portion of the first dough you prepare as a raised offering. Just as you present the raised offering from the threshing floor, so you shall set this portion apart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the first portion of your dough, you shall present an offering to the LORD as a contribution throughout your generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you have made a mistake and failed to keep all these commands that the LORD has given to Moses,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Everything that the LORD has commanded you through Moses, from the day the LORD first gave these commands to Moses, and continuing throughout all your generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the community unintentionally commits an offense without being aware of it, the entire congregation must present one young bull as a burnt offering, a pleasing aroma to the LORD, along with its grain offering and drink offering, as prescribed. They must also offer one male goat as a sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall perform the act of atonement for the entire community of the Israelites, and they will be forgiven, for their sin was committed unintentionally. They are to present their offering to the LORD—a burnt sacrifice—along with their sin offering before the LORD, to address their unintentional wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire community of the Israelites, as well as the foreigner living among them, will be forgiven, because all the people acted unintentionally and without knowledge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone unintentionally commits a sin, they must bring a female goat in its first year as a sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall provide atonement for the person who sins unintentionally, when they commit a sin unknowingly in the presence of the LORD, in order to make atonement for them. Then their sin shall be forgiven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There shall be one law for anyone who sins unintentionally, whether they are native-born among the Israelites or a foreigner living among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if anyone acts defiantly, whether they are native-born or a foreigner, they show contempt for the LORD. That person must be cut off from among the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because he has rejected the word of the LORD and violated His command, that person will be completely cut off; their guilt will remain on them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While the Israelites were in the wilderness, they came upon a man who was gathering wood on the Sabbath day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses, Aaron, and the entire assembly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They placed him in custody because it had not yet been determined what should be done with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "The man must certainly be put to death. The entire community is to stone him with stones outside the camp."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire assembly took him outside the camp and stoned him to death with stones, as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell the Israelites to make tassels on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to attach a blue cord to each tassel on the corners.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This shall serve as a tassel for you, so that when you see it, you will remember all the commands of the LORD and obey them. In this way, you will not follow the desires of your own heart or the inclinations of your eyes, which have led you astray in the past.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that you may remember and faithfully carry out all my commands, and remain set apart as holy to your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God. I am the LORD your God.</span></p>






</body></html>