<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdg8gq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:99e15c91-0ddf-dc3a-72b9-873f05389796" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Solomon had completed the construction of the house of the LORD, the king’s palace, and all the other projects he had desired to accomplish, it came to pass.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD appeared to Solomon a second time, just as He had appeared to him at Gibeon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to him, "I have heard your prayer and your plea, which you have made before me. I have consecrated this house that you have built, to establish my name there forever. My eyes and my heart will be there continually."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if you will walk before me as your father David did, with a heart of integrity and uprightness, doing all that I have commanded you, and if you will keep my statutes and ordinances,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I will firmly establish the throne of your kingdom over Israel forever, just as I promised to your father David, saying, ‘You will never lack a descendant to sit on the throne of Israel.’</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if you or your descendants turn away from following me and fail to observe my commandments and statutes, which I have given to you, and instead go and serve other gods, bowing down to them in worship,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I will remove Israel from the land I have given them, and I will reject this house, which I have consecrated for my name, casting it out of my presence. Israel will become a proverb and a subject of scorn among all peoples.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning this temple, which is exalted, everyone who passes by it will be amazed and will scoff, saying, "Why has the LORD dealt with this land and this house in such a way?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they will respond, "Because they abandoned the LORD their God, who brought their ancestors out of the land of Egypt, and instead clung to other gods, worshiping and serving them. That is why the LORD has brought all this disaster upon them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After twenty years had passed, Solomon had completed the construction of the two buildings: the house of the Lord and the royal palace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Hiram, the king of Tyre, had supplied Solomon with cedar and fir trees, as well as gold, fulfilling all his requests. In return, King Solomon gave Hiram twenty cities in the region of Galilee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hiram traveled from Tyre to inspect the cities that Solomon had given him, but he was not satisfied with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "What are these cities you have given me, my brother?" So he named that region the land of Cabul, and it is called so to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hiram sent to the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the account of the forced labor that King Solomon conscripted to build the house of the LORD, his own palace, the Millo, the wall of Jerusalem, as well as Hazor, Megiddo, and Gezer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, had marched up and captured Gezer. He set it on fire, killing the Canaanites who lived in the city, and then gave it as a gift to his daughter, Solomon’s wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon rebuilt Gezer and Lower Beth-horon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Baalath, and Tadmor in the wilderness, within the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon also built all the storage cities he needed, as well as cities for his chariots and cities for his cavalry. He constructed whatever he desired in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and throughout all the territories under his rule.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all the remaining people of the Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites—those who were not part of the people of Israel—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of those peoples who remained in the land after the Israelites had not been able to completely destroy them—these Solomon conscripted for forced labor, and they remain in that condition to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Solomon did not force the Israelites into slavery. Instead, they served as warriors, his officials, his leaders, his commanders, the officers in charge of his chariots, and his cavalry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These were the leading officials overseeing Solomon's projects, numbering five hundred and fifty, who supervised the people engaged in the work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pharaoh’s daughter went up from the City of David to the house that Solomon had built for her, and afterward he constructed the Millo.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Three times each year, Solomon presented burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar he had built for the LORD. He also burned incense on the altar that stood before the LORD. In this way, he completed the construction of the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon established a fleet of ships at Ezion-geber, which is near Eloth, on the coast of the Red Sea, in the territory of Edom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hiram sent his own servants, experienced sailors who were skilled in navigating the seas, to join Solomon’s servants on the fleet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They journeyed to Ophir and brought back from there 420 talents of gold, which they delivered to King Solomon.</span></p>






</body></html>