<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdjvd2.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a83e9c16-8d05-aadf-52b5-5991c969e738" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that the LORD gave to Jeremiah:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Stand at the entrance of the LORD’s temple and declare this message there, saying: "Listen to the word of the LORD, all you people of Judah who come through these gates to worship the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Change your ways and your actions, and I will allow you to remain in this land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not place your trust in deceptive words, repeating, "This is the temple of the LORD, the temple of the LORD, the temple of the LORD!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you genuinely change your ways and your actions, and if you truly administer justice between one person and another,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you do not oppress the foreigner, the fatherless, or the widow, and if you do not shed innocent blood in this place, nor follow other gods to your own harm,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I will establish you in this place, in the land I gave to your ancestors, to remain there forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, you are relying on deceptive words that are of no benefit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, burn offerings to Baal, and follow after other gods that you do not even know?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Come and present yourselves before me in this temple, which bears my name, and then declare, "We are safe to commit all these detestable acts"?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Has this house, which bears my name, become in your eyes a hideout for thieves? Truly, I myself have seen it, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go now to the place in Shiloh, where I first established my presence and made my name known, and see what I did to it because of the wickedness of my people Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, because you have committed all these deeds, declares the LORD, I spoke to you repeatedly, rising early to warn you, but you did not listen; I called out to you, but you did not respond.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will deal with this house, which bears my name and in which you place your trust, and with this place that I gave to you and your ancestors, just as I dealt with Shiloh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will banish you from my presence, just as I have banished all your relatives, the entire descendants of Ephraim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, do not pray for this people, nor raise a cry or offer a prayer on their behalf, nor plead with me on their account, for I will not listen to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do you not see what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The children collect wood, the fathers light the fire, and the women knead dough to bake cakes for the queen of heaven. They pour out drink offerings to other gods, all to provoke me to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord says, "Are they really provoking me to anger? No, they are only bringing harm upon themselves, to their own shame and disgrace."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: "Behold, my anger and wrath will be poured out on this place—on the people, on the animals, on the trees of the field, and on the produce of the ground. It will burn fiercely and will not be extinguished."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, says: Combine your burnt offerings with your sacrifices and eat the meat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I did not speak to your ancestors, nor did I give them any commands on the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, concerning burnt offerings or sacrifices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what I commanded them, saying: "Listen to my voice, and I will be your God, and you will be my people. Walk in all the ways I have instructed you, so that it may go well with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they did not listen or pay attention, but instead followed their own plans and the stubborn desires of their wicked hearts. They turned away and moved backward, rather than progressing forward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the time your ancestors left the land of Egypt until this very day, I have continually sent you all my servants, the prophets, persistently and faithfully, rising early each day to send them to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet they did not listen to me or pay attention, but instead stubbornly hardened their hearts. They acted even more corruptly than their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must speak all these words to them, but they will not listen to you. You will call out to them, but they will not answer you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you shall say to them, "This is a nation that does not heed the voice of the LORD their God, nor accepts discipline. Truth has vanished and is no longer spoken by them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shave off your hair, O Jerusalem, and throw it away; raise a lament on the barren heights, for the LORD has rejected and abandoned this generation that has provoked His wrath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Judah have committed evil in my sight, declares the LORD. They have placed their detestable idols in the house that bears my name, defiling it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have constructed the high places of Tophet, which is in the Valley of Ben Hinnom, to burn their sons and daughters in the fire—something I never commanded, nor did it even enter my mind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully, the time is coming, declares the LORD, when this place will no longer be called Tophet or the Valley of Ben Hinnom, but the Valley of Slaughter. They will bury the dead in Tophet until there is no more room.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bodies of these people will become food for the birds of the sky and the wild animals of the earth, with no one to drive them away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, I will bring an end to the sounds of joy and celebration in the cities of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem—the voices of merriment, the shouts of gladness, the calls of the bridegroom, and the songs of the bride. For the land will become a desolate wasteland.</span></p>






</body></html>