<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdm0j1.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:24e937bd-3c82-99a4-5a5b-05d4b636b14f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The group of prophets said to Elisha, "Look, the place where we are staying with you is too small for us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let us go, we ask you, to the Jordan River, and from there let each of us cut a log. Then we will build a place for ourselves to live there." And he replied, "Go ahead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And someone said, "Please, be willing and come with your servants." He replied, "I will go."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he went with them. When they reached the Jordan River, they began cutting down trees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As one of the men was cutting down a tree, the iron head of his axe fell into the water. He cried out, "Oh no, my master! It was borrowed!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man of God asked, "Where did it fall?" When the man showed him the spot, Elisha cut off a stick, threw it into the water, and the iron axe head floated to the surface.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he said, "Take it for yourself." And he reached out his hand and took it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king of Aram waged war against Israel. He consulted with his advisors, saying, "I will set up my camp in this specific location."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prophet sent a message to the king of Israel, warning him, "Be careful not to go near that place, for the Arameans have advanced there."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel sent his forces to the place that the man of God had pointed out and warned him about, and by doing so, he protected himself there—not just once, but multiple times.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, the heart of the king of Aram was deeply troubled by this matter. He summoned his officials and said to them, "Will you not tell me which one of us is aiding the king of Israel?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One of his servants replied, "No one, my lord the king. However, Elisha, the prophet in Israel, reports to the king of Israel even the words you speak in the privacy of your bedroom."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "Go and find out where he is, so that I may send someone to bring him here." And they reported back to him, saying, "He is in Dothan."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, he sent horses, chariots, and a large army there. They arrived by night and surrounded the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the servant of the man of God got up early and went out, he saw that the city was surrounded by an army with horses and chariots. The servant said to him, "Oh no, my master! What are we going to do?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "Do not be afraid, for those who are with us are greater in number than those who are with them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha prayed and said, "LORD, I ask you, open his eyes so that he may see." Then the LORD opened the young man’s eyes, and he saw. And behold, the mountain was filled with horses and chariots of fire surrounding Elisha.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they came down to him, Elisha prayed to the LORD and said, "Please strike this people with blindness." And the LORD struck them with blindness, just as Elisha had requested.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha said to them, "This is not the right path, nor is this the city you are looking for. Follow me, and I will take you to the man you are seeking." Then he led them to Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived in Samaria, Elisha prayed, "LORD, open the eyes of these men so they can see." The LORD opened their eyes, and they looked around—and there they were, right in the middle of Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel said to Elisha when he saw them, "My father, should I strike them down? Should I strike them down?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "You must not strike them down. Would you kill those you have captured with your own sword and bow? Instead, provide them with bread and water so they may eat and drink, and then let them return to their master."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He provided them with abundant supplies, and after they had eaten and drunk, he sent them on their way, and they returned to their master. From that time on, the raiding parties of Syria no longer invaded the land of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, Ben-hadad, the king of Syria, assembled his entire army, advanced, and laid siege to Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A severe famine struck Samaria, and the city was under siege. The situation became so dire that a donkey's head was sold for eighty pieces of silver, and a quarter of a cab of dove's dung was sold for five pieces of silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the king of Israel was walking along the top of the city wall, a woman called out to him, saying, "Help me, my lord the king!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "If the LORD does not help you, how can I help you? Can I provide for you from the threshing floor or from the winepress?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king asked her, "What is troubling you?" She replied, "This woman said to me, 'Give up your son so we can eat him today, and tomorrow we will eat my son.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So we cooked my son and ate him. The next day, I said to her, “Give me your son so we can eat him.” But she had hidden her son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the king heard the woman’s words, he tore his clothes in distress. As he walked along the city wall, the people noticed that he was wearing sackcloth underneath, against his skin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he declared, "May God bring severe punishment upon me, and even more, if Elisha, the son of Shaphat, keeps his head on his shoulders this day."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha was sitting in his house with the elders when the king sent a messenger ahead of him. Before the messenger arrived, Elisha said to the elders, "Do you see how this son of a murderer has sent someone to take off my head? When the messenger comes, shut the door and hold it firmly against him. Don’t you hear the sound of his master’s footsteps right behind him?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As he was still speaking with them, suddenly the messenger came down to him and said, "This disaster is from the LORD. Why should I wait for the LORD any longer?"</span></p>






</body></html>