<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdmfo2.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:64b4921f-728c-87ed-5439-a3867d6df278" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the seventh seal was opened, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I saw seven angels standing in the presence of God, and they were given seven trumpets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then another angel came and stood at the altar, holding a golden censer. He was given a large amount of incense to offer, along with the prayers of all God’s people, on the golden altar that stands before the throne.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the smoke of the incense, mingled with the prayers of God’s holy people, rose up before God from the hand of the angel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel took the incense burner, filled it with fire from the altar, and hurled it down to the earth. At this, there were loud rumblings, peals of thunder, flashes of lightning, and a violent earthquake.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the seven angels who held the seven trumpets made ready to sound them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The first angel blew his trumpet, and there came hail and fire mixed with blood, which were hurled down upon the earth. As a result, a third of all the trees were burned up, and every patch of green grass was consumed by the flames.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the second angel blew his trumpet, and what appeared to be a massive mountain, ablaze with fire, was hurled into the sea. A third of the sea turned to blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And a third of the living creatures in the sea perished, and a third of the ships were ruined.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the third angel blew his trumpet, and a great star, blazing like a torch, fell from heaven. It landed on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The name of the star is called Wormwood, and a third of the waters turned bitter like wormwood. Many people died from the waters because they had become poisonous.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the fourth angel sounded his trumpet, and a third of the sun was struck, along with a third of the moon and a third of the stars. As a result, a third of their light was extinguished, leaving a third of the day without sunlight and a third of the night without the glow of the moon and stars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I looked, and I heard an angel flying high in the sky, proclaiming with a loud voice, "Disaster, disaster, disaster to those who dwell on the earth because of the remaining trumpet blasts from the three angels who are about to sound their trumpets!"</span></p>






</body></html>