<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdn7zl.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:383cef7a-9e32-debd-85bf-5e216f2c1023" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David went to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest. Ahimelech was alarmed when he saw David and asked him, "Why are you alone, with no one accompanying you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Ahimelech the priest, "The king has given me a task and instructed me, 'Do not let anyone know anything about the mission I am sending you on or what I have commanded you to do.' I have directed my servants to meet me at a specific location."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, what do you have available? Give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatever you have on hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest replied to David, saying, "I have no ordinary bread on hand, but there is consecrated bread available—provided that the young men have kept themselves from women."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David replied to the priest, saying, "Indeed, women have been kept away from us for about the past three days since I set out. The young men's belongings are consecrated, and the bread, though it may be ordinary, has been set apart as holy today in the vessel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the priest gave him the consecrated bread, for there was no other bread available except the bread of the Presence, which had been removed from before the LORD and replaced with fresh bread on the day it was taken away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, one of Saul’s servants was present, detained before the LORD. His name was Doeg, an Edomite, who served as the chief overseer of Saul’s herds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Ahimelech, "Do you have a spear or sword here at hand? I didn’t bring my own sword or any weapons with me because the king’s mission required urgent haste."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest replied, "The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you killed in the Valley of Elah, is here, wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If you wish to take it, take it, for there is no other sword like it here." David responded, "There is none like it; give it to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David got up and fled that day because he was afraid of Saul. He went to Achish, the king of Gath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The servants of Achish said to him, "Isn’t this David, the king of the land? Didn’t they sing about him in their dances, saying, 'Saul has killed his thousands, and David his tens of thousands'?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David took these words to heart and was deeply afraid of Achish, the king of Gath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he altered his demeanor in their presence and pretended to be insane while in their custody. He scribbled on the doors of the gate and let his saliva run down onto his beard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Achish said to his servants, "Look, you can see that this man is insane. Why have you brought him to me?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do I need lunatics, that you have brought this man to act like a madman in my presence? Should this man even enter my house?</span></p>






</body></html>