<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Corinthians Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdro8a.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a50c8b0c-5ad9-c7d4-58ad-38499d90ed19" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Corinthians Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pursue love above all else, and earnestly seek spiritual gifts, but especially strive to prophesy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the one who speaks in an unknown language is not speaking to people, but to God, since no one understands what is being said. Yet in the Spirit, they are speaking profound truths.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the one who prophesies speaks to people for their building up, encouragement, and consolation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who speaks in an unfamiliar language builds up only themselves, but the one who prophesies builds up the entire community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I wish that all of you could speak in tongues, but even more, I desire that you would prophesy. For the one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues, unless someone interprets, so that the church may be built up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Brothers and sisters, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will that benefit you unless I communicate something meaningful—whether through a revelation, a deep understanding, a prophetic message, or a teaching?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even objects without life that produce sound, whether a flute or a harp, if they do not produce distinct tones, how will anyone recognize what is being played on the flute or the harp?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the trumpet produces an unclear or indistinct sound, who will get ready for battle?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, unless you speak words with your tongue that are clear and understandable, how will anyone know what is being said? You will simply be speaking into empty air.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There are, perhaps, many different kinds of sounds in the world, and not one of them is without meaning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, if I do not understand the meaning of what is being said, I will be like a foreigner to the one speaking, and the one speaking will be like a foreigner to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, since you are eager for spiritual gifts, strive to excel in those that build up the church.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let anyone who speaks in an unfamiliar language pray for the ability to interpret it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if I pray in a language I do not understand, my spirit is engaged in prayer, but my mind does not produce any meaningful understanding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What does this mean, then? I will pray guided by the Spirit, and I will also pray with my mind engaged. I will sing praises led by the Spirit, and I will also sing with my understanding fully involved.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Otherwise, when you offer a blessing in the spirit, how can someone who is present but unlearned say "Amen" to your prayer of thanksgiving, since they do not understand what you are saying?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You certainly give thanks in a fitting manner, but the other person is not being built up or encouraged.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I give thanks to my God that I speak in tongues more than all of you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the church, I would prefer to speak five words that I understand, so that I can use my voice to teach others as well, rather than ten thousand words in a language that is unknown.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Brothers and sisters, do not remain immature in your thinking. In regard to evil, be like infants—innocent and untainted—but in your understanding, strive to be mature and discerning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the Scriptures it is written, "Through people who speak unfamiliar languages and with foreign lips I will address this nation; yet even then, they will not listen to me," says the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the gift of speaking in tongues is intended as a sign, not for those who already believe, but for those who do not believe. On the other hand, prophecy is not meant for those who do not believe, but for those who do believe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, if the entire church gathers together in one place and everyone speaks in tongues, and some who are unfamiliar with this practice or are unbelievers come in, will they not say that you are out of your minds?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if everyone is prophesying, and an unbeliever or someone unfamiliar with these matters comes in, they will be convicted by all and called to account by all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, the hidden thoughts of the heart are revealed; and so, falling facedown, he will worship God and declare that God is truly among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What then should we conclude, brothers and sisters? When you gather together, each one of you has something to contribute—a hymn, a teaching, a message in another language, a revelation, or an interpretation. But let everything be done in a way that builds up the community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone speaks in a language that is not understood, let only two or at most three people speak, each taking turns, and let someone interpret what is said.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if there is no one to interpret, the speaker should remain silent in the assembly and speak only to himself and to God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others carefully evaluate what is said.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If something is revealed to another person who is present, let the first speaker remain silent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You may all prophesy one at a time, so that everyone may learn and everyone may be encouraged.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The spiritual expressions of the prophets are under their own control.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For God is not a source of disorder, but of harmony, as is evident in all the gatherings of His holy people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Women should remain silent during the gatherings of the church, for they are not permitted to speak. Instead, they are instructed to be in submission, as the law also directs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If they wish to learn something, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is improper for women to speak in the assembly of the church.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What? Did the word of God originate from you? Or has it come to you alone?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone considers themselves to be a prophet or spiritually gifted, let them recognize that what I am writing to you is the Lord’s command.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone remains uninformed or chooses not to understand, let them remain so.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, my fellow believers, earnestly desire to prophesy, and do not prevent anyone from speaking in tongues.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let everything be carried out in a proper and orderly manner.</span></p>






</body></html>