<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Hosea Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdtt9a.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f26ddbc1-9e7a-48d4-0f0c-d349578af91f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Hosea Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Say to your brothers, "You are my people," and to your sisters, "You are shown compassion."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Plead with your mother, plead with her—for she is no longer my wife, nor am I her husband. Let her remove her acts of unfaithfulness from her presence and her adulteries from between her breasts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Otherwise, I will strip her bare and expose her as on the day she was born. I will turn her into a desolate wasteland, make her like a parched desert, and let her perish from thirst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will show no mercy to her children, for they are the offspring of unfaithfulness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their mother has acted like a prostitute; she who bore them has behaved disgracefully. For she said, “I will pursue my lovers, who provide me with my food and water, my wool and flax, my oil and drink.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, take note: I will block your path with thornbushes and build a wall so that she cannot find her way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She will pursue her lovers, but she will not catch up to them; she will seek them, but she will not find them. Then she will say, “I will go back to my first husband, for things were better for me then than they are now.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For she did not realize that it was I who provided her with grain, wine, and oil, and who greatly increased her silver and gold—wealth which they then used for Baal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will take back my grain when it is ready for harvest and my wine when it is time for gathering. I will reclaim my wool and my flax, which were given to cover her nakedness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now I will expose her shameful behavior before her lovers, and no one will be able to rescue her from my power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring an end to all her joy—her festivals, her new moon celebrations, her Sabbath observances, and all her appointed feasts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will destroy her vineyards and her fig trees, of which she has said, "These are my rewards, given to me by my lovers." I will turn them into a wilderness, and the wild animals will devour them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will punish her for the days of the Baals, when she burned incense to them, adorned herself with her earrings and jewelry, and pursued her lovers, but forgot me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully: I will draw her close, lead her into the wilderness, and speak tenderly to her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will restore her vineyards to her from that place, and the Valley of Achor will become a gateway of hope. There she will sing as she did in the days of her youth, as in the time when she came up out of the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And on that day, declares the LORD, you will call me "My Husband," and you will no longer call me "My Master."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will remove the names of the Baals from her speech, and they will no longer be invoked or remembered by their names.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, I will establish a covenant for them with the wild animals, the birds of the sky, and the creatures that move along the ground. I will abolish the bow, the sword, and warfare from the land, and I will enable them to live in safety and security.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bind you to myself in an everlasting covenant; yes, I will unite myself to you in righteousness, justice, steadfast love, and compassion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will commit myself to you in steadfast loyalty, and you will come to truly know the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day, declares the LORD, that I will respond—I will respond to the heavens, and they will respond to the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land will respond to the grain, the new wine, and the olive oil, and they will respond to Jezreel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will plant her as my own in the land, and I will show compassion to her who was shown no mercy. I will declare to those who were not my people, "You are my people," and they will respond, "You are our God."</span></p>






</body></html>