<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdvrm0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:aba9d2f2-ae19-534a-0260-fd47ad26024b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, I heard a loud voice from a vast multitude in heaven, proclaiming, "Hallelujah! Salvation, glory, honor, and power belong to the Lord our God!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For his judgments are true and just, for he has condemned the great prostitute who corrupted the earth with her immorality, and he has avenged the blood of his servants that was shed by her hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more they declared, "Praise the Lord!" And the smoke from her destruction ascended endlessly, for all eternity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures bowed down and worshiped God, who was seated on the throne, declaring, "Amen! Hallelujah!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a voice came from the throne, saying, "Give praise to our God, all you who serve Him, and all who revere Him, both the humble and the mighty."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I heard what sounded like the voice of a vast multitude, like the roar of many rushing waters, and like the sound of powerful thunderclaps, proclaiming, "Hallelujah! For the Lord God Almighty reigns!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let us be filled with joy and celebrate, and give glory to him, for the wedding of the Lamb has arrived, and his bride has prepared herself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it was granted to her to be clothed in fine linen, pure and bright, for the fine linen represents the righteous deeds of God’s holy people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to me, "Write this: Blessed are those who are invited to the wedding feast of the Lamb." Then he added, "These are the genuine and trustworthy words of God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I fell at his feet to worship him, but he said to me, "Do not do that! I am a fellow servant with you and with your brothers and sisters who hold to the testimony of Jesus. Worship God! For the testimony of Jesus is the very essence of prophecy."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw the sky open up, and there before me was a white horse. The one riding it was called Faithful and True, and with justice he judges and wages war.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His eyes blazed like fiery flames, and upon his head were many crowns. He bore a name inscribed that no one knew except himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was dressed in a robe soaked in blood, and his name is known as the Word of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The armies of heaven followed Him, riding on white horses and dressed in pure, white linen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From his mouth comes a sharp sword, with which he will strike down the nations. He will rule them with an iron scepter, and he will trample the winepress of the fierce wrath of Almighty God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And on his robe and on his thigh, a name is inscribed: **KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.**</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he called out with a loud voice, saying to all the birds flying high in the sky, "Come, gather together for the great feast of God!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that you may consume the flesh of kings, the flesh of military commanders, the flesh of mighty warriors, the flesh of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all people—both free and enslaved, both insignificant and prominent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw the beast, along with the rulers of the earth and their armies, assembled to wage war against the one seated on the horse and against his army.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The beast was captured, and with him the false prophet who had performed miraculous signs in his presence, by which he had deceived those who had accepted the mark of the beast and those who had worshiped his image. Both of them were thrown alive into the fiery lake of burning sulfur.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining ones were killed by the sword that came from the mouth of the one seated on the horse, and all the birds were filled with their flesh.</span></p>






</body></html>