<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 49</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdwqwi.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e2e870db-f376-c85c-52b2-1db0e473cca5" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 49</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, you distant lands, and pay attention, you nations from afar. The LORD called me before I was born; from my mother’s womb, He declared my name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has made my words as sharp as a sword; under the protection of his hand, he has shielded me and fashioned me like a polished arrow; he has concealed me in his quiver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to me, "You are my servant, Israel, through whom I will display my glory."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said, "I have toiled for nothing; I have exhausted my strength for no purpose and in futility. Yet surely my cause is with the LORD, and my reward is with my God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, the LORD, who formed me from the womb to be his servant, to restore Jacob to him, declares this: Even if Israel is not yet gathered, I will still be honored in the sight of the LORD, and my God will be my source of strength.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said, "It is too small a thing for you to serve as My servant to restore the tribes of Jacob and bring back the survivors of Israel. I will also make you a light to the nations, so that My salvation may reach to the ends of the earth." </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD, the Redeemer of Israel, and his Holy One, declares to the one whom people despise, to the one whom nations detest, to the servant of rulers: Kings will see and rise to their feet, and princes will bow down in reverence, because of the LORD, who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, for he has chosen you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "In a time of favor, I have answered you; on a day of deliverance, I have come to your aid. I will protect you and appoint you as a covenant for the people, to restore the land and to reassign its desolate inheritances." </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that you may declare to the captives, "Come out!" and to those in darkness, "Be free!" They will find nourishment along the paths, and their grazing grounds will be on every high place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will no longer hunger or thirst; neither will the scorching heat nor the sun strike them down. For the one who shows them compassion will lead them; he will guide them to springs of living water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will transform all my mountains into level paths, and my highways will be raised up and made smooth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, these will come from distant places; indeed, some from the north and the west, and others from the land of Sinim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rejoice, O heavens; be glad, O earth; and burst into song, O mountains! For the LORD has brought comfort to His people and will show compassion to those who are suffering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Zion said, "The LORD has abandoned me, and my Lord has forgotten me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Can a mother forget her nursing child, or fail to show compassion for the child of her womb? Even if she could forget, I will never forget you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I have engraved you on the palms of my hands; your walls are always before me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your children will return quickly; those who destroyed you and laid you waste will depart from you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look around you and see: all these are gathering and coming to you. As surely as I live, declares the LORD, you will clothe yourself with them all as though they were ornaments, and you will fasten them on yourself like a bride adorns herself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your ruined and desolate places, and your devastated land, will now be too small for the number of people living there, and those who once consumed you will be driven far away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The children you will have, after you have lost the others, will say to you, "This place is too cramped for me; make room so that I may settle here."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you will say in your heart, "Who has given me these children, since I had lost my own and was left desolate, a captive, and wandering from place to place? And who has raised them up? Look, I was left alone—where did these come from?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: "Listen, I will raise my hand to the nations and set up my banner for the peoples. They will carry your sons in their arms, and your daughters will be carried on their shoulders."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Kings will act as your guardians, and their queens as your caretakers. They will bow down before you, their faces to the ground, and will humble themselves at your feet. Then you will know that I am the LORD, for those who wait for me will never be put to shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Can the prey be taken from the mighty, or can the rightful captive be set free?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Even the captives held by the mighty will be taken from them, and the prey seized by the ruthless will be rescued. For I will oppose those who oppose you, and I will save your children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause those who oppress you to consume their own flesh, and they will become drunk with their own blood, as though it were sweet wine. Then all humanity will recognize that I, the LORD, am your Savior and your Redeemer, the mighty One of Jacob.</span></p>






</body></html>