<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joel Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sdz1he.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f52626a0-369f-8197-bca8-a5d9a63bd3ca" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joel Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for in those days and at that time, when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also assemble all the nations and bring them down to the Valley of Jehoshaphat. There, I will confront them concerning my people and my inheritance, Israel, whom they have dispersed among the nations and whose land they have divided.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have gambled for my people, trading a young boy for the services of a prostitute and selling a young girl for wine to indulge in their drinking.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What concern do you have with me, O Tyre and Sidon, and all the regions of Philistia? Are you planning to repay me for something? If you attempt to repay me, I will swiftly and surely turn your repayment back upon your own heads.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you have taken my silver and my gold, and have brought my precious treasures into your temples.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks, intending to send them far away from their own land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will bring them back from the place where you sold them, and I will turn the consequences of your actions back upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will hand over your sons and daughters to the people of Judah, and they will sell them to the Sabeans, a distant nation. This will happen because the LORD has declared it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Announce this among the nations: Prepare for war! Rouse the mighty warriors; let all the soldiers advance and assemble. Let them rise up and march forward!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Transform your farming tools into weapons of war—turn your plows into swords and your pruning hooks into spears. Even those who are weak should declare, "I am strong!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gather together and come, all you nations; assemble yourselves from every direction. Summon your mighty warriors to descend there, O LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let the nations be roused and come up to the Valley of Jehoshaphat, for there I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take up the sickle, for the harvest is ready. Come, go down, for the winepress is full and the vats overflow—their wickedness is immense.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Great crowds, vast multitudes are gathered in the valley of judgment, for the day of the LORD is close at hand in that valley of decision.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sun and the moon will grow dark, and the stars will cease to shine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will roar from Zion and raise His voice from Jerusalem; the heavens and the earth will tremble. Yet the LORD will be a refuge for His people and a stronghold for the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, you will come to understand that I am the LORD your God, who dwells in Zion, my holy mountain. Then Jerusalem will be holy, and no foreigners will pass through her again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In that day, the mountains will drip with sweet wine, and the hills will overflow with milk. All the streams of Judah will run with water, and a spring will rise from the house of the LORD, watering the valley of Shittim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Egypt will become a wasteland, and Edom will turn into a barren desert, because of the violence they committed against the people of Judah and the innocent blood they shed in their land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Judah will endure forever, and Jerusalem will remain from one generation to the next.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will purify their guilt that I have not yet purified, for the LORD resides in Zion.</span></p>






</body></html>