<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\se0ra8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4b206da8-89fe-65b8-3edd-6e1e28e9cb5c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message of Samuel reached all of Israel. Then Israel went out to fight against the Philistines and set up camp near Eben-ezer, while the Philistines camped at Aphek.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines positioned their forces to confront Israel. When the battle began, Israel was defeated by the Philistines, who killed about four thousand soldiers on the battlefield.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people returned to their camp, the elders of Israel asked, "Why has the LORD allowed us to be defeated by the Philistines today? Let us bring the ark of the LORD's covenant from Shiloh to us, so that when it comes among us, it may deliver us from the power of our enemies."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the people sent messengers to Shiloh to bring from there the ark of the covenant of the LORD of hosts, who is enthroned above the cherubim. The two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the ark of the covenant of the LORD entered the camp, all of Israel let out a mighty shout, so loud that the ground itself seemed to tremble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Philistines heard the sound of the loud shout, they said, "What is the meaning of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews?" Then they realized that the ark of the LORD had been brought into the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines were filled with fear, for they said, "God has come into the camp!" They cried out, "We are doomed! Nothing like this has ever happened before."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible for us! Who can rescue us from the power of these mighty gods? These are the gods who struck the Egyptians with every kind of plague in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be strong and act with courage, O Philistines, so that you do not become servants to the Hebrews, as they have been to you. Show your bravery and fight!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines engaged in battle, and Israel was defeated, causing every soldier to flee to their own tents. The slaughter was immense, as thirty thousand Israelite foot soldiers fell that day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ark of God was captured, and Eli's two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, were killed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man from the tribe of Benjamin ran from the battlefield and arrived in Shiloh that same day. His clothes were torn, and he had dust on his head as a sign of mourning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrived, Eli was sitting on a seat by the roadside, keeping watch, for his heart was deeply anxious about the ark of God. As soon as the man entered the city and reported what had happened, the entire city cried out in distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Eli heard the sound of the commotion, he asked, “What is the meaning of this uproar?” The man hurried in and reported the news to Eli.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Eli was ninety-eight years old at that time, and his vision had grown so weak that he could no longer see clearly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man replied to Eli, "I am the one who has come from the battlefront, and today I fled from the army." Eli asked, "What has happened, my son?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The messenger replied, "Israel has fled before the Philistines, and there has been a great slaughter among the people. Your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God has been captured."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the ark of God was mentioned, he fell backward off his seat beside the gate, broke his neck, and died. He was an old man and weighed down by years. He had served as a judge over Israel for forty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the wife of Phinehas, her daughter-in-law, was pregnant and close to giving birth. When she heard the news that the ark of God had been captured and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she collapsed and went into labor, for her pains suddenly came upon her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As she neared the time of her death, the women attending her said to her, "Do not be afraid, for you have given birth to a son." But she did not respond or pay any attention to their words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She named the child Ichabod, saying, "The glory has departed from Israel," because the ark of God had been captured and because of her father-in-law and her husband.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said, "The glory has departed from Israel, for the ark of God has been captured."</span></p>






</body></html>