<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 34</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\se3kbb.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:19b96c6d-219c-3e3e-aed5-011436715661" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 34</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, deliver a prophecy against the shepherds of Israel. Speak to them and declare, 'This is what the Lord GOD says to the shepherds: How terrible it will be for the shepherds of Israel who only take care of themselves! Shouldn’t shepherds be feeding the flock?'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You consume the richest portions, you clothe yourselves with the finest wool, and you slaughter the well-fed animals, yet you fail to care for the flock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have failed to strengthen the weak, nor have you healed the sick. You have not bandaged the injured, nor have you brought back those who were scattered. You have not sought out the lost, but instead, you have ruled over them with harshness and cruelty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people were scattered because they had no shepherd to guide them, and as a result, they became prey for all the wild animals of the field when they were dispersed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My sheep roamed aimlessly across all the mountains and over every high hill. Indeed, my flock was scattered across the entire face of the earth, with no one to search for them or seek them out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you shepherds, listen to the word of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, because my flock has become prey, and my flock has been devoured by every wild animal of the field, since there was no shepherd, and because my shepherds did not seek out my flock—instead, the shepherds fed themselves and did not care for my flock—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you shepherds, listen to the word of the LORD:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: Listen, I am against the shepherds, and I will hold them accountable for my flock. I will remove them from tending the flock, and they will no longer be allowed to feed themselves. For I will rescue my flock from their control, so that they will no longer prey on them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the Lord GOD says: "Listen carefully, I myself will search for my sheep and seek them out."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as a shepherd searches for his flock on the day when his sheep are scattered among the pastures, so I will seek out my sheep and rescue them from all the places where they have been scattered on a day of clouds and darkness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring them out from among the nations and gather them from the various lands, and I will lead them back to their own country. I will provide for them on the mountains of Israel, by the streams, and in all the settled areas of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will provide for them in lush pastures, and their grazing place will be on the high mountains of Israel. There they will rest in a secure and peaceful fold, and they will graze in rich, abundant pastures on the mountains of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will care for my flock and provide for them, and I will make them rest in safety, declares the Sovereign LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will search for those who are lost, bring back those who have been scattered, bind up the injured, and strengthen the weak. But I will bring an end to the arrogant and the powerful; I will deal with them according to justice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning you, my people, this is what the Lord GOD says: Listen carefully, I will judge between one animal and another, between the rams and the male goats.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Does it seem insignificant to you that you have consumed the finest pasture, yet you trample underfoot what remains of your grazing lands? And though you have drunk from the clearest waters, you muddy the rest with your feet?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning my flock, they are forced to eat what you have trampled underfoot, and they must drink water that you have muddied with your feet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says to them: "Listen carefully, I myself will judge between the well-fed cattle and the lean cattle."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you have pushed and shoved with your sides and shoulders, and driven away all the weak and sickly with your horns until you have scattered them far and wide.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will rescue my flock, and they will no longer be prey. I will judge between one animal and another.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will appoint a single shepherd to care for them, and he will tend to them—my servant David. He will be the one to shepherd them and serve as their leader. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I, the LORD, will be their God, and my servant David will be a leader among them. I, the LORD, have declared it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will establish a covenant of peace with them, and I will put an end to the harmful wild animals in the land. They will live securely in the wilderness and rest safely in the forests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will make them and the surrounding areas of my holy hill a source of blessing. I will send rain in its proper season; there will be abundant showers of blessing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The trees of the field will produce their fruit, and the land will yield its harvest. They will live securely in their land and will know that I am the LORD, when I break the chains of their oppression and rescue them from the power of those who exploited them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will no longer fall prey to the nations, nor will the wild animals of the land devour them. Instead, they will live securely, with no one to cause them fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will establish for them a renowned and flourishing nation, and they will no longer suffer from famine in the land, nor will they endure the disgrace inflicted by the nations anymore.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, they will know that I, the LORD their God, am with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are indeed my people, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you, my flock, the flock that I shepherd, are my people, and I am your God, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>






</body></html>