<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\se409q.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:841d35cf-2c1c-60eb-a08d-9e27f764036a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Kirjath-jearim came and took the ark of the LORD. They brought it to the house of Abinadab on the hill and consecrated his son Eleazar to guard the ark of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened that while the ark remained in Kirjath-jearim, a long period of time passed—twenty years in all. During this time, the entire house of Israel mourned and sought after the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel addressed all the people of Israel, saying, "If you are truly returning to the LORD with all your heart, then remove the foreign gods and the idols of Ashtaroth from among you. Dedicate your hearts fully to the LORD and serve Him alone. Then He will rescue you from the power of the Philistines."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the people of Israel removed the idols of Baal and Asherah, and devoted themselves exclusively to serving the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel said, "Assemble all Israel at Mizpeh, and I will intercede with the LORD on your behalf."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people assembled at Mizpeh, where they drew water and poured it out before the LORD as a symbolic act of repentance. They fasted that day and confessed, saying, "We have sinned against the LORD." Samuel then served as judge over the Israelites at Mizpeh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Philistines learned that the Israelites had assembled at Mizpah, the rulers of the Philistines advanced to attack Israel. Upon hearing this, the Israelites became fearful of the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites said to Samuel, "Do not stop pleading with the LORD our God on our behalf, so that He may rescue us from the power of the Philistines."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel took a nursing lamb and presented it as a complete burnt offering to the LORD. Then Samuel prayed to the LORD on behalf of Israel, and the LORD answered his plea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Samuel was presenting the burnt offering, the Philistines advanced to attack Israel. But on that day, the LORD thundered with a mighty roar against the Philistines, throwing them into confusion. They were struck down and defeated before Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Israel marched out from Mizpah, pursued the Philistines, and struck them down until they reached the area below Beth-car.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Samuel took a stone and placed it between Mizpah and Shen, naming it Ebenezer, saying, "Up to this point, the LORD has helped us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines were defeated and no longer invaded the territory of Israel. Throughout Samuel’s lifetime, the power of the LORD was actively opposing the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cities that the Philistines had seized from Israel were returned to Israel, from Ekron all the way to Gath. Israel also reclaimed the surrounding territories from the control of the Philistines. Additionally, peace was established between Israel and the Amorites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Samuel served as judge over Israel throughout his entire life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he traveled each year in a circuit to Bethel, Gilgal, and Mizpah, serving as judge over Israel in all those places.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He returned to Ramah, for that was where his home was, and there he continued to serve as judge over Israel. In Ramah, he also built an altar to the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>