<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\se4r72.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2783f6eb-5203-0145-e79c-d3d9a40b4740" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must love the LORD your God, faithfully observe His instructions, His statutes, His ordinances, and His commandments at all times.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Understand this today: I am not speaking to your children, who have not experienced or witnessed the discipline of the LORD your God, His greatness, His mighty power, and His outstretched arm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the miraculous signs and mighty deeds He performed in the heart of Egypt—against Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and all his land—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And what He did to the army of Egypt, to their horses and their chariots—how He caused the waters of the Red Sea to rush over them as they pursued you, and how the LORD utterly destroyed them, leaving a lasting testimony to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all that He did for you in the wilderness, until you arrived at this place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And what He did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben: how the ground split open and swallowed them up, along with their families, their tents, and all their possessions, in the sight of all Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But your own eyes have witnessed all the mighty deeds the LORD has performed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must carefully observe all the commands I am giving you today, so that you may be strong and able to enter and take possession of the land you are about to occupy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that you may live long in the land which the LORD swore to your ancestors to give to them and to their descendants—a land abundant with prosperity and blessing, flowing with milk and honey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land you are about to enter and possess is not like the land of Egypt, where you came from. In Egypt, you would sow your seed and water it by foot, as if tending a garden of vegetables.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land you are about to enter and take possession of is a land of mountains and valleys, and it is watered by rain from the sky.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A land that the LORD your God watches over with care: the eyes of the LORD your God are continually fixed upon it, from the start of the year to its very end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: If you listen carefully to my commandments, which I am giving you today, and if you love the LORD your God and serve him with all your heart and all your soul,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will provide rain for your land at the proper time—both the early rain and the late rain—so that you may gather in your grain, your wine, and your oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause grass to grow in your fields for your livestock, so that you may eat and be satisfied.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful and guard yourselves, so that your hearts are not led astray, causing you to turn away and serve other gods, bowing down to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the LORD's anger is aroused against you, He will close up the heavens so that no rain falls, and the land will not produce its crops. Then you will quickly perish from the good land that the LORD is giving you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must deeply treasure these words of mine in your heart and soul, and fasten them as a sign on your hand, so that they may serve as a constant reminder before your eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must diligently teach these things to your children, speaking of them when you are at home and when you are traveling, when you lie down and when you rise up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall write these words on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that your life may be long, and the lives of your children, in the land that the LORD promised with an oath to give to your ancestors—a land where your days will be as enduring as the heavens above the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you carefully observe all these commandments that I am giving you, putting them into practice, loving the LORD your God, walking in all His ways, and holding firmly to Him,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD will drive out all these nations before you, and you will take possession of nations larger and more powerful than yourselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every place where the soles of your feet walk will belong to you. Your territory will extend from the wilderness and Lebanon, from the Euphrates River, all the way to the western sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one will be able to stand against you, for the LORD your God will cause all the land where you set foot to be filled with fear and dread of you, just as He has promised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, today I am presenting before you both a blessing and a curse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A blessing will come to you if you obey the commands of the LORD your God, which I am giving to you today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you refuse to obey the commands of the LORD your God and turn away from the path I am instructing you to follow today, choosing instead to pursue other gods that you have not known, then a curse will come upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the LORD your God brings you into the land you are entering to possess, you are to proclaim the blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse on Mount Ebal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are they not located on the other side of the Jordan, toward the west, in the land of the Canaanites who live in the open country near Gilgal, close to the oak groves of Moreh?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will cross over the Jordan to enter and take possession of the land that the LORD your God is giving you. You will possess it and settle there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must diligently follow all the statutes and ordinances that I am presenting to you today.</span></p>






</body></html>