<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 40</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\se5ixg.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c1e8845c-76f8-f9cd-064d-f0726c0a51c2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 40</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that came to Jeremiah from the LORD after Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, had released him from Ramah. Jeremiah had been taken bound in chains among all the captives of Jerusalem and Judah who were being exiled to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander of the guard took Jeremiah and said to him, "The LORD your God has declared this disaster against this place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has now brought this about and acted just as He declared, for you have sinned against the LORD and have not obeyed His voice. This is why this disaster has come upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, listen carefully: today I am releasing you from the chains that were on your hands. If it seems good to you to come with me to Babylon, come, and I will ensure your well-being. But if it seems undesirable to you to come with me to Babylon, then do not come. Look, the whole land lies before you—go wherever it seems good and right for you to go.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before he departed, the captain said, "Go back to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon has appointed as governor over the cities of Judah. Stay with him among the people, or go wherever you think it is best for you to go." Then the captain of the guard provided him with food and a gift, and sent him on his way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeremiah went to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, in Mizpah, and stayed with him among the people who remained in the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all the commanders of the armies who were in the open country, along with their troops, heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, as governor over the land and had entrusted to him the care of the men, women, children, and the poor of the land—those who had not been taken into exile to Babylon—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they went to Gedaliah at Mizpah—Ishmael son of Nethaniah, Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, Seraiah son of Tanhumeth, the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah son of the Maacathite—along with their men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, made a solemn promise to them and their men, saying, "Do not be afraid to serve the Chaldeans. Stay in the land, serve the king of Babylon, and all will go well for you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for me, I will remain at Mizpah to represent you before the Chaldeans who come to us. But as for you, gather wine, summer fruits, and oil, store them in your containers, and settle in the cities you have taken possession of.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Similarly, when all the Jews who were in Moab, among the Ammonites, in Edom, and in all the surrounding regions heard that the king of Babylon had allowed a remnant of Judah to remain, and that he had appointed Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, as their governor,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the Jews who had been scattered to various places returned and came back to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah at Mizpah. There, they gathered an abundant harvest of wine and summer fruits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, Johanan son of Kareah and all the commanders of the military forces who were in the open country came to Gedaliah at Mizpah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they said to him, "Are you fully aware that Baalis, the king of the Ammonites, has sent Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, to kill you?" But Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, did not believe them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Johanan, the son of Kareah, spoke privately to Gedaliah in Mizpah, saying, “Please, let me go and kill Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah. No one will know it was me. Why should he be allowed to kill you, causing all the Jews who have gathered around you to be scattered and the remnant of Judah to perish?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, said to Johanan, the son of Kareah, "You must not do this, for what you are saying about Ishmael is not true."</span></p>






</body></html>