<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 41</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\se7d65.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a3fa3669-eac1-c88e-30e7-5d79abbe0961" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 41</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, he led me to the temple and measured the doorposts. Each post was six cubits wide on one side and six cubits wide on the other, which was the width of the structure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The width of the entrance was ten cubits, and the walls on either side of the entrance were five cubits wide on one side and five cubits wide on the other. He measured the length of the structure, which was forty cubits, and its width, which was twenty cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he went inside and measured the doorframe, which was two cubits wide; the door itself was six cubits high, and the width of the door was seven cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he measured its length, which was twenty cubits, and its width, also twenty cubits, in front of the temple. Then he said to me, "This is the Most Holy Place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he measured the wall of the temple, it was six cubits thick; and the width of each side room was four cubits, extending all around the temple on every side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The side chambers were arranged in three levels, one above the other, with thirty chambers in each row. These chambers were built into the wall of the temple, surrounding it on all sides, so that they were supported by the temple wall. However, the chambers themselves did not have direct support from the main wall of the temple; instead, they were constructed in such a way that they relied on the surrounding structure for stability.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The structure expanded and spiraled upward around the side chambers, for the winding passage of the house ascended continuously around it. As a result, the width of the house increased progressively from the lowest chamber to the highest, rising through the middle levels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also observed the height of the temple all around it: the foundations of the side chambers measured a full reed, which was six large cubits in length.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The outer wall of the side chambers was five cubits thick. The remaining space was designated for the inner side chambers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And surrounding the house on all sides, between the chambers, there was an open space twenty cubits wide.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entrances to the side chambers faced the open area, with one door on the north side and another on the south side. The width of the open area surrounding the structure was five cubits on all sides.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The structure that stood in front of the separate area at the western end was seventy cubits wide. The wall surrounding the building was five cubits thick on all sides, and the length of the structure was ninety cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he measured the temple, and it was one hundred cubits long; the separate area, along with the building and its walls, was also one hundred cubits long.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The width of the front of the temple, along with the area of the separate courtyard to the east, measured one hundred cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He measured the length of the structure facing the separate area behind it, along with its galleries on both sides, and it was one hundred cubits. This measurement included the inner temple and the porches of the courtyard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The doorposts, the narrow windows, and the surrounding balconies on their three levels, opposite the entrance, were paneled with wood all around. From the ground up to the windows, the walls were covered, and the windows themselves were fitted with frames.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the space above the entrance, extending to the inner chamber, both inside and outside, and along all the surrounding walls, both within and without, everything was measured precisely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The structure was adorned with cherubim and palm trees, arranged in such a way that a palm tree stood between each cherub. Each cherub had two faces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The human face was turned toward the palm tree on one side, and the face of a young lion was turned toward the palm tree on the other side. This design was repeated throughout the entire temple, all around the walls.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the floor up to the area above the doorway, cherubim and palm trees were carved, and this design extended across the wall of the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The doorposts of the temple were square in shape, as was the front of the sanctuary. The appearance of one resembled the appearance of the other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wooden altar was three cubits high and two cubits long. Its corners, length, and sides were all made of wood. Then he said to me, "This is the table that stands in the presence of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The temple and the inner sanctuary each had a pair of doors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The doors were constructed with two panels each, both of which were hinged to swing open. Each door had two panels: one set of two panels for the first door and another set of two panels for the second door.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the doors of the temple, cherubim and palm trees were carved, just as they were on the walls. Additionally, thick wooden beams were placed on the outer face of the porch.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The structure had narrow windows, and palm tree designs were carved on both sides, along the walls of the porch. These decorations also extended to the side chambers of the building, and the walls were made of thick wooden panels.</span></p>






</body></html>