<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Corinthians Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\se932v.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9ecb9abb-a1b2-a3e0-fddd-70424ac3c323" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Corinthians Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding the matters you wrote to me about: It is beneficial for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To prevent sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife, and each woman should have her own husband.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The husband should fulfill his marital duty to his wife, and the wife should do the same for her husband.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A wife does not have exclusive authority over her own body, but her husband does. In the same way, a husband does not have exclusive authority over his own body, but his wife does.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not deprive one another of marital intimacy, unless you both agree to abstain for a limited time, so that you may devote yourselves to prayer and fasting. Then come together again, so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I say this as a concession, not as a command.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I wish that everyone could remain as I am. However, each person has their own unique gift from God, one suited to their particular circumstances, and another to theirs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I say this to those who are unmarried and to widows: It is good for them to remain single, as I am.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if they are unable to exercise self-control, they should marry, for it is better to marry than to be consumed with passion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To those who are married, I give this instruction—not from myself, but from the Lord—a wife must not separate from her husband.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if she does leave, she must remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband. Likewise, the husband must not divorce his wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, to the others I speak, not as a direct command from the Lord: If any brother has a wife who does not believe, and she is willing to live with him, he should not divorce her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a woman has a husband who does not believe, and he is willing to live with her, she should not leave him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the husband who does not believe is set apart through his wife, and the wife who does not believe is set apart through her husband. Otherwise, your children would be considered impure, but as it is, they are holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the unbelieving partner chooses to leave, let them leave. In such situations, a believing husband or wife is not bound to remain in the marriage. For God has called us to live in peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How can you be certain, O wife, whether you will bring about the salvation of your husband? Or how can you know, O husband, whether you will bring about the salvation of your wife?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, as God has assigned to each person their role, and as the Lord has called each one, let them live accordingly. This is the instruction I give in all the churches.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone was called by God while already circumcised, they should not try to reverse it. If someone was called while uncircumcised, they should not seek circumcision.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Being circumcised or uncircumcised means nothing; what truly matters is obeying God’s commands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let each person remain in the situation or role in which they were when they were called.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Were you called while you were a servant? Do not let it trouble you. But if you are able to gain your freedom, take advantage of the opportunity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For whoever is called by the Lord while being a servant is now set free by the Lord. In the same way, whoever is called while being free becomes a servant of Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have been purchased at a great cost; do not become slaves to human masters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Brothers and sisters, each person should remain in the situation in which they were called, living in it with faithfulness to God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding the matter of unmarried women, I do not have a direct command from the Lord. However, I offer my opinion as one who has received the Lord’s mercy and is therefore trustworthy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I believe, therefore, that it is beneficial in the current difficult circumstances for a person to remain as they are.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are you married? Do not seek to end the marriage. Are you unmarried? Do not seek a wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if you choose to marry, you have not sinned; and if a young woman marries, she has not sinned. Yet those who marry will face difficulties in this life, but I say this to spare you from unnecessary hardship.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I say this, brothers and sisters: the time is limited. From now on, those who have wives should live as though they do not have them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who weep should live as though they are not weeping; those who rejoice should live as though they are not rejoicing; and those who buy should live as though they do not truly own anything.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And those who engage with the world should do so as though they are not fully absorbed by it, for the present form and structure of this world is passing away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I want you to be free from anxiety. The unmarried person is concerned about the things of the Lord—how to live in a way that pleases the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the one who is married is concerned with worldly matters, seeking to please his wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There is a distinction between a wife and an unmarried woman. The unmarried woman is devoted to the concerns of the Lord, striving to be holy in both body and spirit. However, the married woman is occupied with the affairs of the world, focusing on how to please her husband.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I say this for your benefit, not to impose restrictions on you, but to promote what is proper and to help you focus on serving the Lord without distraction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if anyone believes he is not acting appropriately toward his unmarried daughter, especially if she is beyond the usual age for marriage and circumstances require it, he is free to do as he sees fit—he does not sin. Let them marry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the person who is firmly resolved in their heart, not feeling compelled but having control over their own will, and has decided in their heart to remain unmarried, does well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the one who allows her to marry is doing well, but the one who does not allow her to marry is doing even better.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A wife is legally bound to her husband as long as he lives. However, if her husband dies, she is free to marry anyone she chooses, provided that the marriage is in accordance with the Lord's will.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, she will be more content if she remains as she is, according to my understanding. And I believe that I, too, have the Spirit of God.</span></p>






</body></html>