<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sebeb2.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:30530d19-a6c1-6109-23da-e833a8e05b34" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the reign of Ahaz, the son of Jotham and grandson of Uzziah, king of Judah, Rezin, the king of Syria, and Pekah, the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, marched against Jerusalem to wage war against it. However, they were unable to conquer it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message was delivered to the house of David, saying, "Syria has formed an alliance with Ephraim." Upon hearing this, the heart of the king and the hearts of his people were shaken, trembling like trees in a forest swaying violently in the wind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD said to Isaiah, "Go out now to meet Ahaz, you and your son Shear-jashub, at the end of the channel of the upper pool, on the road to the launderer's field."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and tell him, "Be careful and stay calm; do not be afraid or lose heart because of these two smoldering stubs of firewood—Rezin of Syria and the son of Remaliah. Their fierce anger is nothing to fear."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah have plotted evil against you, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let us march against Judah, stir up trouble within it, and force our way through its defenses. Then we will establish our own king there, even the son of Tabeal, to rule over it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: "It will not stand, nor will it come to pass."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The capital of Syria is Damascus, and the leader of Damascus is Rezin. Within sixty-five years, Ephraim will be shattered and will no longer exist as a distinct people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The capital of Ephraim is Samaria, and the leader of Samaria is the son of Remaliah. If you do not stand firm in faith, you will not stand at all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the LORD spoke again to Ahaz, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Request a sign from the LORD your God; seek it either in the depths below or in the heights above.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Ahaz replied, "I will not ask for a sign, nor will I test the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Listen now, house of David! Is it not enough for you to exhaust the patience of people? Must you also exhaust the patience of my God?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign: Behold, a young woman will conceive and bear a son, and she will name him Immanuel. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will eat curds and honey, so that he may learn to reject what is evil and choose what is good.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before the child learns to reject what is wrong and choose what is right, the land you despise will be abandoned by both its kings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will bring upon you, your people, and your father’s household a time of trouble unlike any that has occurred since the day Ephraim separated from Judah—a time brought about by the king of Assyria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day, that the LORD will summon the flies from the farthest streams of Egypt and the bees from the land of Assyria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will come and settle in the desolate valleys, in the crevices of the rocks, among the thornbushes, and in every patch of brambles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that very day, the Lord will use a hired razor—those from beyond the Euphrates River, the king of Assyria—to shave the head and the hair of the legs, and it will also sweep away the beard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day, that a person will raise a young cow and two sheep;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen that because of the plentiful milk they produce, he will eat curds. Indeed, everyone who remains in the land will eat curds and honey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day, that every place where there were a thousand vines, valued at a thousand pieces of silver, will become overgrown with briers and thorns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People will come there armed with bows and arrows, for the entire land will be overgrown with briers and thorns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On all the hills that are cultivated with hoes, there will no longer be the threat of briers and thorns. Instead, these lands will be open for oxen to graze and for smaller livestock to roam freely.</span></p>






</body></html>