<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 43</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sehy4w.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7a369703-e3e7-5743-25e3-2e9da7c01126" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 43</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, he led me to the gate, the one that faces toward the east.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, behold, the glory of the God of Israel approached from the direction of the east. His voice was like the sound of rushing waters, and the earth radiated with the brilliance of His glory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The scene before me matched the vision I had seen, just like the vision I had when I came to bring judgment upon the city. These visions were similar to the one I had seen by the Kebar River. Overwhelmed, I fell facedown.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the majestic presence of the LORD entered the temple through the gateway facing the east.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner courtyard, and there I saw that the glory of the LORD filled the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I heard a voice speaking to me from within the temple, and the man stood beside me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to me, "Son of man, this is the place of My throne and the place where I will rest My feet, where I will dwell among the people of Israel forever. The house of Israel will no longer defile My holy name—neither they nor their kings—through their idolatrous practices or by the burial of their kings in their high places."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In placing their threshold next to my threshold and their doorposts beside my doorposts, with only a wall separating me from them, they have defiled my holy name through the detestable acts they have committed. Therefore, in my anger, I have brought judgment upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, let them abandon their unfaithfulness and remove the remains of their kings far from me, and I will dwell among them forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, describe the temple to the house of Israel, so that they may feel ashamed of their sins. Let them carefully consider its design and measurements."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If they are ashamed of all they have done, show them the design of the temple, its layout, its exits and entrances, and all its details—its regulations, its procedures, and all its specifications. Write it down clearly in their presence so that they may carefully follow its entire design and all its regulations, and carry them out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning the temple: The entire area on the top of the mountain, all its boundaries surrounding it, shall be considered most holy. Indeed, this is the law governing the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the dimensions of the altar, measured in cubits (a cubit being the length of a forearm plus a handbreadth): The base of the altar shall be one cubit high and one cubit wide, with a rim around its edge measuring one span in width. This shall form the lower section of the altar. The upper section, where the offerings are made, shall rise above this base.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the base on the ground up to the lower ledge, the height shall be two cubits, and the width one cubit. From the smaller ledge up to the larger ledge, the height shall be four cubits, and the width one cubit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The altar shall be four cubits in height, and from its base upward, it shall have four horns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The altar shall be twelve cubits in length and twelve cubits in width, forming a perfect square on all four sides.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The platform shall be fourteen cubits long and fourteen cubits wide, forming a square on all four sides. A border around it shall be half a cubit wide, and the base beneath it shall extend one cubit outward on all sides. Its steps shall face toward the east.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to me, "Mortal, this is what the Lord GOD declares: These are the regulations for the altar on the day it is constructed, to present burnt offerings upon it and to sprinkle blood upon it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall provide to the priests, the Levites who are descendants of Zadok—those who come near to me to serve me, declares the Lord GOD—a young bull as a sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall take some of its blood and apply it to the four horns of the altar, the four corners of the ledge, and the surrounding rim. In this way, you shall purify and cleanse it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall also take the bull designated for the sin offering, and it shall be burned in the designated area of the temple, outside the sanctuary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the second day, you shall present an unblemished young goat as a sin offering. They shall purify the altar just as they purified it with the bull.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you have finished purifying it, you shall present a young bull without defect and a ram from the flock without blemish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present them before the LORD, and the priests shall sprinkle salt on them, and then they will offer them as a burnt offering to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For seven days, you must prepare each day a goat as a sin offering. In addition, they are to prepare a young bull and a ram from the flock, both without any defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For seven days they shall cleanse the altar and make it pure; in this way, they shall set it apart as holy. During this time, they shall also dedicate themselves to this sacred task.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When these days are completed, it shall be that on the eighth day and thereafter, the priests will offer your burnt offerings and your peace offerings on the altar. And I will accept you, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>






</body></html>