<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 31</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\selbm1.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:474c1649-bb93-cf15-e08b-252221411b45" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 31</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eleventh year, on the first day of the third month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, speak to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and to his vast army: To whom can you be compared in your greatness?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the Assyrian was like a cedar in Lebanon, with beautiful branches, providing dense shade, and towering in height; its top reached high among the thick foliage.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The abundant waters nourished him and caused him to flourish; the deep waters exalted him, with their streams flowing all around where he was planted, sending their channels to water all the trees of the field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, its stature towered above all the trees of the field; its branches grew numerous and its limbs stretched out wide, nourished by the abundance of water as it sprouted and flourished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the birds of the sky built their nests in its branches, and beneath its limbs all the wild animals of the field gave birth to their young. In its shade, all the great nations made their home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, he was majestic in his grandeur, with his branches spreading far and wide, for his roots were nourished by abundant waters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cedars in God’s garden could not overshadow him; the fir trees could not compare to his branches, and the chestnut trees were not equal to his boughs. No tree in God’s garden could match his beauty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have made him majestic with the abundance of his branches, so that all the trees of Eden, those in the garden of God, were filled with envy because of him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: Because you have exalted yourself in pride, and your top has risen high among the dense branches, and your heart has become arrogant because of your lofty position,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I have handed him over to the power of the mighty ruler of the nations; he will certainly deal with him as he deserves. I have driven him out because of his wickedness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Foreigners, the most fearsome among the nations, have cut him down and abandoned him. His branches lie scattered on the mountains and in every valley; his limbs are broken along all the rivers of the land. All the peoples of the earth have withdrawn from his shelter and left him deserted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he falls, all the birds of the sky will settle on his remains, and the wild animals of the field will gather on his fallen branches.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the purpose: so that none of the trees by the waters may become prideful because of their height, nor raise their tops above the dense foliage, nor may any of the well-watered trees stand tall in their loftiness. For all of them are destined for death, to be brought down to the depths of the earth, among mortals, alongside those who descend to the grave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: On the day he descended to the grave, I brought about mourning. I covered the depths for him, and I held back their floods; the mighty waters were restrained. I made Lebanon grieve for him, and all the trees of the field withered in sorrow for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I caused the nations to tremble at the sound of his downfall when I brought him down to the grave with those who descend into the pit. All the trees of Eden, the finest and most majestic of Lebanon, all those nourished by water, will find consolation in the depths of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They also descended to the grave with him, joining those who were slain by the sword. Even those who had been his strength, who lived under his protection among the nations, went down with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To whom can you be compared in splendor and majesty among the trees of Eden? Yet you will be brought down, along with the trees of Eden, to the depths of the earth. You will lie among the uncircumcised, with those who have been slain by the sword. This is Pharaoh and all his vast multitude, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>






</body></html>