<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Hosea Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sev20b.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0588bbbe-7d07-cc89-f1a8-ba6b88064b7d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Hosea Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message from the LORD that came to Hosea, the son of Beeri, during the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and during the reign of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the beginning of the message the LORD gave through Hosea. The LORD said to Hosea, "Go and marry a woman who has been unfaithful, and have children with her, for the land itself has acted like a prostitute by turning away from the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Hosea went and married Gomer, the daughter of Diblaim. She conceived and gave birth to a son for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to him, "Name him Jezreel, for in a short time I will punish the house of Jehu for the bloodshed at Jezreel, and I will bring an end to the kingdom of the house of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day that I will shatter the strength of Israel in the Valley of Jezreel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She became pregnant again and gave birth to a daughter. Then God said to him, "Name her Lo-Ruhamah, for I will no longer show mercy to the house of Israel, nor will I forgive them. Instead, I will completely remove them from my care."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I will show mercy to the house of Judah, and I will deliver them by the power of the LORD their God. I will not save them through the bow, the sword, or warfare, nor by means of horses or horsemen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After she had finished nursing Lo-Ruhamah, she became pregnant again and gave birth to a son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then God said, "Name him Lo-ammi, for you are not my people, and I will not be your God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Israel will be as numerous as the sand by the sea, which cannot be measured or counted. And in the very place where it was said to them, "You are not my people," there it will be declared to them, "You are the children of the living God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the people of Judah and the people of Israel will be united as one. They will choose a single leader for themselves and will return from exile in the land. For the day of Jezreel will be a great and significant day.</span></p>






</body></html>