<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Matthew Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sevlxy.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:924c2dd2-70e1-216a-5f17-f840d70e4bfd" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Matthew Chapter 23</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jesus spoke to the crowd and to his disciples, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "The scribes and the Pharisees occupy the seat of Moses' authority."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, whatever they instruct you to follow, make sure you observe and do it. However, do not imitate their actions, because they say one thing but fail to do it themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they impose heavy and oppressive burdens on people, placing them on their shoulders, yet they themselves refuse to lift even a finger to help carry them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They do all their deeds to be noticed by others: they make their prayer boxes wide and lengthen the tassels on their garments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They desire the places of honor at banquets and the most prominent seats in the synagogues.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they love to receive greetings in the marketplaces and to be addressed by people as 'Rabbi, Rabbi.'</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, do not allow yourselves to be called "Rabbi," for you have one Teacher, and that is the Messiah. All of you are brothers and equals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not address anyone on earth as your father, for you have only one Father, and He is in heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not allow yourselves to be called "masters," for you have only one Master, and that is Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who is considered the greatest among you must become your servant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever seeks to elevate themselves will be brought low, but whoever humbles themselves will be lifted up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But how terrible it will be for you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you block the way to the kingdom of heaven for others. You yourselves do not enter, nor do you allow those who are trying to enter to go in.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! You exploit widows, taking over their homes, and then cover your greed with long, showy prayers. Because of this, you will face even harsher judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! You travel over sea and land to win a single convert, yet when they are won, you make them twice as much a child of destruction as you yourselves are.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for you, blind guides! You say, “If someone swears by the temple, it means nothing; but if someone swears by the gold of the temple, they are bound by their oath.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You foolish and blind people! Which is greater—the gold, or the temple that makes the gold sacred?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And whoever swears by the altar, it means nothing; but whoever swears by the offering that is placed upon it, that person is bound by their oath and guilty if they break it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You foolish and blind people! Which is greater—the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, whoever swears by the altar swears not only by it but also by everything that is placed upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever swears by the temple is swearing not only by the temple itself but also by the one who dwells within it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever swears by heaven is swearing by the throne of God and by the one who sits upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! You carefully give a tenth of your spices—mint, dill, and cumin—but you have neglected the more important matters of the law: justice, mercy, and faithfulness. These are the things you should have practiced, without neglecting the others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You blind guides! You carefully filter out a tiny gnat but swallow a whole camel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! You carefully clean the outside of cups and dishes, but inside they are filled with greed and self-indulgence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You blind Pharisee, first cleanse the inside of the cup and dish, so that the outside may also become clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! You are like whitewashed tombs, which look beautiful on the outside but on the inside are full of dead men’s bones and every kind of impurity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, you outwardly appear righteous to others, but inwardly you are filled with hypocrisy and wickedness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you build elaborate tombs for the prophets and decorate the graves of the righteous,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And say, "If we had lived in the days of our ancestors, we would not have joined with them in shedding the blood of the prophets."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you yourselves testify against yourselves, proving that you are the descendants of those who murdered the prophets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go ahead, then, and complete the full measure of your ancestors' sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You snakes, you brood of vipers, how will you escape the judgment of hell?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully: I am sending to you prophets, wise men, and teachers. Some of them you will kill and crucify; others you will flog in your synagogues and pursue from town to town.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that all the innocent blood shed on the earth may come upon you, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Truly, I tell you, all these things will come upon this generation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you, how often I longed to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you were unwilling!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, your house is abandoned and left to you in desolation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, "Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord."</span></p>






</body></html>