<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sew5bd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8eef3899-bec7-43e3-be3c-2108fda40788" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Get up and go down to the potter's house, and there I will make you hear my message."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I went down to the potter’s house, and there he was, working at his wheel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The clay vessel he was shaping became flawed in the potter’s hands, so he remade it into another vessel, as it pleased the potter to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"O house of Israel, am I not able to do with you as this potter does?" says the LORD. "Just as the clay is in the potter's hand, so are you in My hand, O house of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the very moment I declare my judgment concerning a nation or a kingdom, to uproot it, tear it down, and destroy it completely—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If that nation, against which I have declared judgment, turns away from its wickedness, I will relent and not bring upon them the disaster I had planned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the very moment I declare my intention concerning a nation or a kingdom—to establish it and cause it to prosper—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If it acts wickedly in my sight and refuses to obey my voice, then I will reconsider the good I had intended to do for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, go and speak to the people of Judah and the residents of Jerusalem, saying, "This is what the LORD declares: Listen, I am preparing disaster against you and making plans to bring it upon you. Turn back now, each of you, from your wicked ways, and reform your actions and behavior."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "There is no hope for us. Instead, we will follow our own plans, and each of us will act according to the stubborn desires of our own wicked hearts."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says: "Go now and inquire among the nations—has anyone ever heard of such a thing? The virgin of Israel has committed a shocking and disgraceful act."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Would someone abandon the snow of Lebanon that flows from the rocky heights of the field? Or would they forsake the cool, refreshing streams that come from distant sources?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because my people have forgotten me, they have offered sacrifices to worthless idols, and they have caused themselves to stumble in their ways, turning away from the ancient, well-established paths, to walk in crooked and unmarked trails.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To make their land a desolate wasteland, an object of perpetual scorn; everyone who passes by will be appalled and shake their head in disbelief.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will scatter them like the east wind drives chaff before the enemy. In the day of their disaster, I will turn my back on them and refuse to show them my face.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they said, "Come, let us plot schemes against Jeremiah, for the law will not vanish from the priests, nor wisdom from the wise, nor the word from the prophets. Come, let us attack him with our words and pay no attention to anything he says."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pay attention to me, O LORD, and listen to the words of those who oppose me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Should evil be repaid for good? For they have dug a pit to trap me. Remember how I stood before you to plead for their good and to turn your anger away from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, hand over their children to famine, and let their blood be spilled by the sword. Let their wives be left childless and widowed, and let their men be killed. Let their young men fall by the sword in battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let a cry of anguish rise from their homes when you suddenly bring an army against them. For they have dug a pit to trap me and hidden snares to catch my feet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet, LORD, you are fully aware of all their schemes against me, their plans to kill me. Do not pardon their wrongdoing, nor erase their sin from your sight. Instead, let them be brought down before you; act against them in the time of your wrath.</span></p>






</body></html>