<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sexlgf.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:422e2046-166e-a911-a873-eb173eb9fcc8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the thirtieth year, on the fifth day of the fourth month, while I was among the exiles by the Kebar River, the heavens opened, and I saw visions from God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fifth day of the month, in the fifth year of King Jehoiachin's exile,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of the LORD came directly to Ezekiel, the priest and son of Buzi, while he was in the land of the Chaldeans by the River Chebar. There, the power and presence of the LORD rested upon him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked, and behold, a whirlwind was coming from the north—a massive cloud with fire flashing back and forth within it, and a brilliant radiance surrounded it. From the center of the fire, there was something like glowing amber.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the center of it emerged what appeared to be four living beings. This is how they looked: they had the form of a human.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each of them had four faces and four wings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their feet were straight and firm, and the soles of their feet were like the hooves of a calf, gleaming with the appearance of polished bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And beneath their wings on all four sides, they had what resembled human hands. Each of the four beings had both faces and wings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their wings were connected to each other; they did not turn as they moved; each one went straight ahead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for the appearance of their faces, each of the four had the face of a human, and on the right side, each had the face of a lion. On the left side, each had the face of an ox, and each also had the face of an eagle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is how their faces appeared: their wings extended upward, with two wings of each being connected to one another, while the other two wings covered their bodies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They all moved straight ahead; wherever the Spirit directed them to go, they went, and they did not turn aside as they moved.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for the appearance of the living beings, they looked like glowing coals of fire, resembling the brightness of torches. This radiant light moved back and forth among the living beings, and the fire was intensely bright, with flashes of lightning darting out from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The living beings darted back and forth with the swiftness and brilliance of a lightning flash.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As I observed the living beings, I saw a wheel on the ground beside each of them, corresponding to their four faces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The appearance of the wheels and their construction was like the gleam of beryl, and all four of them looked alike. Their form and their function were as if one wheel were within another wheel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they moved, they went straight forward in any of the four directions without turning aside as they went.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for their rims, they were so high that they were awe-inspiring, and the rims were covered all around with eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the living beings moved, the wheels moved alongside them; and when the living beings rose from the ground, the wheels also rose with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wherever the spirit directed them to go, they went, for their movement was guided by the spirit. The wheels rose up alongside them, for the spirit of the living beings was within the wheels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the living creatures moved, the wheels moved with them; when the living creatures stood still, the wheels also stood still. And when the living creatures rose from the ground, the wheels rose alongside them, for the spirit of the living creatures was within the wheels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The expanse above the heads of the living beings appeared like the awe-inspiring gleam of crystal, extending upward over their heads.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Beneath the expanse, their wings stretched out straight, each creature's wings touching those of the next. Each had two wings covering one side of its body and two wings covering the other side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they moved, I heard the sound of their wings, like the roar of mighty waters, like the voice of the Almighty, the sound of a great multitude, like the noise of an army. When they stood still, they lowered their wings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And a voice came from the expanse above their heads, as they stood still with their wings lowered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Above the expanse that stretched over their heads was something resembling a throne, appearing like a sapphire stone. And on the throne’s likeness was a figure resembling a human form, seated high above it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I saw what looked like the color of amber, with the appearance of fire surrounding it from within. From the appearance of his waist upward and from his waist downward, I saw what seemed like the appearance of fire, and it radiated brightness all around.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The appearance of the brightness surrounding it was like the appearance of a rainbow in the clouds on a rainy day. This was how the likeness of the glory of the LORD appeared. When I saw it, I fell facedown, and I heard the voice of someone speaking.</span></p>






</body></html>