<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Zechariah Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\seyhfj.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:269f25c7-8564-ad69-9112-67ae9e39a1b3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Zechariah Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the message of the LORD of hosts came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts says: I have been deeply passionate for Zion with an intense zeal, and I have been fiercely protective of her with great anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: I have returned to Zion, and I will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. Jerusalem will be called the City of Truth, and the mountain of the LORD of hosts will be known as the Holy Mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts declares: "Once again, elderly men and women will live in the streets of Jerusalem, each person leaning on a staff because of their advanced age."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the streets of the city will be filled with children, both boys and girls, playing in its open spaces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts says: If this seems extraordinary in the eyes of the remnant of this people in these days, should it also seem extraordinary in my eyes? declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts says: "Listen carefully, I will rescue my people from the lands of the east and from the lands of the west."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring them back, and they will live in the heart of Jerusalem. They will be my people, and I will be their God, with unwavering faithfulness and justice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts says: "Be strong and courageous, all of you who hear these words spoken by the prophets in these days—words that were proclaimed when the foundation of the house of the LORD of hosts was laid, so that the temple might be built."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those earlier days, there was no payment for people or animals, and no one could come or go in safety because of the widespread distress. I had turned everyone against their neighbors, causing conflict and unrest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But now, I will not treat the remnant of this people as I did in the past, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants will thrive; the vine will yield its fruit, the land will produce its harvest, and the heavens will send their dew. I will enable the remaining portion of this people to inherit all these blessings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: Just as you, O house of Judah and house of Israel, were considered a curse among the nations, so I will save you, and you will become a blessing. Do not be afraid, but let your hands remain strong and steadfast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD of Hosts declares: Just as I intended to bring punishment upon you when your ancestors provoked me to anger, says the LORD of Hosts, and I did not relent from carrying it out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I have once again resolved in these days to show favor to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah. Do not be afraid.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the actions you must take: Each of you must speak truthfully to your neighbor. Carry out judgments that are fair and promote peace within your communities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not devise evil in your hearts against one another, and do not swear deceitful oaths, for all these are actions I detest, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the message of the LORD of heavenly armies came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts declares: The fasts of the fourth month, the fifth month, the seventh month, and the tenth month will become for the house of Judah occasions of joy, gladness, and festive celebrations. Therefore, cherish truth and pursue peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts declares: "It will surely happen that people will come, along with the inhabitants of many cities."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of one city will go to another, saying, "Let us go quickly to pray before the LORD and to seek the LORD of hosts. I will go as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, many peoples and powerful nations will come to seek the LORD of hosts in Jerusalem and to pray in the presence of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts says: In those days, it will happen that ten men from every nation and language will grasp the robe of a Jewish man, saying, "Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you."</span></p>






</body></html>