<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 26</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\seyq1d.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6ce768ec-97b2-5be8-2857-0729452b5c67" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 26</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After the plague had ended, the LORD spoke to Moses and to Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Count the entire community of the Israelites, from those twenty years old and above, according to their ancestral families—everyone in Israel who is capable of serving in the military.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke to them on the plains of Moab by the Jordan River, near Jericho, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Conduct a census of the people, counting all those who are twenty years old and above, just as the LORD commanded Moses and the Israelites when they came out of the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Reuben, the firstborn son of Israel: the descendants of Reuben include Hanoch, from whom comes the family of the Hanochites; and Pallu, from whom comes the family of the Palluites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Hezron comes the family of the Hezronites; from Carmi comes the family of the Carmites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the clans of the Reubenites, and the total number of those counted among them was forty-three thousand, seven hundred and thirty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sons of Pallu were Eliab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sons of Eliab were Nemuel, Dathan, and Abiram. These are the same Dathan and Abiram who became well-known in the community when they joined Korah’s rebellion against Moses and Aaron, opposing the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ground split open and swallowed them along with Korah when that group perished, at the same time the fire consumed the 250 men. This event served as a warning sign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Despite this, the descendants of Korah did not perish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Simeon, grouped according to their family lines, were as follows: from Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; from Jamin, the family of the Jaminites; from Jachin, the family of the Jachinites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Zerah comes the family of the Zarhites; from Shaul comes the family of the Shaulites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the clans of the Simeonites, totaling twenty-two thousand two hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Gad, listed according to their clans, were: from Zephon, the clan of the Zephonites; from Haggi, the clan of the Haggites; from Shuni, the clan of the Shunites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Ozni comes the family of the Oznites; from Eri comes the family of the Erites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning Arod, the family of the Arodites; concerning Areli, the family of the Arelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the clans of the descendants of Gad, as recorded in their census: forty thousand five hundred in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sons of Judah were Er and Onan, but both Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Judah, according to their clans, were as follows: from Shelah, the clan of the Shelanites; from Perez, the clan of the Perezites; and from Zerah, the clan of the Zerahites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Pharez were as follows: from Hezron came the family of the Hezronites, and from Hamul came the family of the Hamulites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the clans of Judah, as recorded in their census: seventy-six thousand five hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Issachar, according to their family lines: from Tola, the family of the Tolaites; from Pua, the family of the Punites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Jashub comes the family of the Jashubites; from Shimron comes the family of the Shimronites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the clans of Issachar, as recorded in their census: sixty-four thousand three hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Zebulun, grouped according to their family lines: From Sered, the family of the Sardites; From Elon, the family of the Elonites; From Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the clans of the Zebulunites, as recorded in their census: sixty thousand five hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Joseph, according to their family lines, were Manasseh and Ephraim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Manasseh: through Machir came the clan of the Machirites. Machir was the father of Gilead, and from Gilead descended the clan of the Gileadites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the descendants of Gilead: from Jeezer comes the clan of the Jeezerites; from Helek comes the clan of the Helekites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Asriel came the family of the Asrielites, and from Shechem came the family of the Shechemites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Shemida comes the family of the Shemidaites, and from Hepher comes the family of the Hepherites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, had no sons, only daughters. The names of Zelophehad’s daughters were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the clans of Manasseh, and their recorded count was fifty-two thousand seven hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the descendants of Ephraim, listed according to their clans: from Shuthelah, the clan of the Shuthelahites; from Becher, the clan of the Becherites; and from Tahan, the clan of the Tahanites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the descendants of Shuthelah: from Eran comes the family line of the Eranites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the clans of the descendants of Ephraim, as recorded in their registration: thirty-two thousand five hundred. These are the descendants of Joseph, organized according to their family lines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Benjamin, grouped according to their family lines, were as follows: from Bela came the family of the Belaites; from Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; and from Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Shupham, the family of the Shuphamites; from Hupham, the family of the Huphamites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman. From Ard came the family of the Ardites, and from Naaman came the family of the Naamites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the descendants of Benjamin, listed according to their clans. The total number of men counted among them was forty-five thousand six hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the descendants of Dan, listed according to their clans: from Shuham, the clan of the Shuhamites. These are the clans of Dan, organized by their families.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the families of the Shuhamites, as recorded in their census, totaled sixty-four thousand four hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Asher, according to their clans: From Jimna, the clan of the Jimnites; From Jesui, the clan of the Jesuites; From Beriah, the clan of the Beriites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Beriah: from Heber, the family of the Heberites; from Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The daughter of Asher was named Sarah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the clans of the descendants of Asher, as recorded in their census, totaling fifty-three thousand four hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Naphtali, according to their family lines: from Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; from Guni, the family of the Gunites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Jezer comes the family of the Jezerites; from Shillem comes the family of the Shillemites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the clans of Naphtali, grouped according to their families. The total number of those counted among them was forty-five thousand four hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This was the total number of the Israelites: six hundred and one thousand, seven hundred and thirty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land shall be divided among these as an inheritance, based on the number of individuals listed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall allocate a larger portion of land to those with greater numbers, and a smaller portion to those with fewer. Each group’s inheritance will be distributed in proportion to the number of people counted among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land, however, shall be divided by lot. Each tribe shall receive its inheritance according to the names of their ancestral tribes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land shall be divided by lot as an inheritance, with each portion assigned according to the size of the group, whether large or small.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the Levites who were counted according to their clans: the clan of Gershon, known as the Gershonites; the clan of Kohath, known as the Kohathites; and the clan of Merari, known as the Merarites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">58 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the clans of the Levites: the clan of the Libnites, the clan of the Hebronites, the clan of the Mahlites, the clan of the Mushites, and the clan of the Korathites. Kohath was the father of Amram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">59 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amram’s wife was named Jochebed. She was the daughter of Levi, born to him in Egypt. Jochebed bore Amram three children: Aaron, Moses, and their sister Miriam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">60 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron became the father of four sons: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">61 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nadab and Abihu died when they presented unauthorized fire before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">62 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of them was twenty-three thousand, all males from one month old and above. However, they were not included in the census of the Israelites because they were not given an inheritance among the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">63 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the ones who were counted by Moses and Eleazar the priest when they took a census of the Israelites in the plains of Moab, near the Jordan River, close to Jericho.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">64 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, among these people, there was not a single man who had been counted by Moses and Aaron the priest when they took the census of the Israelites in the wilderness of Sinai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">65 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD had declared concerning them, "They will certainly die in the wilderness." And not one of them remained alive, except Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun.</span></p>






</body></html>