<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Romans Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\seyrnk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:df484a49-5622-c1bd-ec78-e0aa98d376df" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Romans Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let every person submit to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except that which comes from God, and the authorities that exist have been established by God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, whoever opposes the authority is resisting what God has established, and those who resist will bring judgment upon themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For governing authorities are not a source of fear for those who do what is right, but for those who do wrong. Do you wish to avoid being afraid of those in power? Then do what is good, and you will receive their approval.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he is God’s servant, appointed for your benefit. But if you do what is wrong, be afraid, because he does not carry the sword for no reason. He is God’s servant, an agent of justice to bring punishment on the one who does evil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, it is necessary for you to submit, not only to avoid punishment but also because it is the right thing to do in accordance with your conscience.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this reason, you also pay taxes, because they are God’s servants, devoting themselves to this very purpose.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, give to everyone what is owed to them: pay taxes to those who are owed taxes, duties to those who are owed duties, respect to those who are owed respect, and honor to those who are owed honor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not owe anyone anything, except to love one another; for whoever loves others has fulfilled the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this reason: "You shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not give false testimony, you shall not covet," and if there is any other commandment, it is summed up in this one statement: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Love does no harm to one's neighbor; therefore, love is the fulfillment of the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028278"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And this is important: recognize the urgency of the present moment, for it is now time to rouse ourselves from spiritual slumber. Our salvation is closer now than when we first believed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028279"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The night is nearly over, and the day is approaching. Therefore, let us discard the deeds of darkness and clothe ourselves with the armor of light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028280"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let us conduct ourselves with integrity, as we would in the light of day, avoiding wild parties and drunkenness, sexual immorality and indecent behavior, quarreling and jealousy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instead, clothe yourselves with the Lord Jesus Christ, and do not make plans to satisfy the desires of your sinful nature.</span></p>






</body></html>