<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sf3919.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8125feaa-e7c1-1774-b6ed-b37437e75cdc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message of the LORD also came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not take a wife for yourself, nor shall you have sons or daughters in this place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says concerning the sons and daughters born in this land, and concerning their mothers who gave birth to them, and concerning their fathers who fathered them in this place:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will perish by terrible deaths; no one will mourn for them, nor will they be buried. Instead, they will become like refuse scattered on the ground. They will be destroyed by the sword and by famine, and their bodies will serve as food for the birds of the sky and the wild animals of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says: Do not enter a house of mourning, nor go to grieve or mourn for them, for I have withdrawn my peace from this people, declares the LORD—my steadfast love and compassion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Both the prominent and the lowly will die in this land. They will not be buried, nor will anyone mourn for them, gash themselves, or shave their heads in grief.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People will no longer make cuts on their bodies or shave their heads in mourning to show grief for the dead. Nor will they offer them the cup of consolation to drink, even when they mourn the loss of a father or mother.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not enter the house of celebration to sit with them, eating and drinking.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Listen carefully, I will bring an end to this place before your very eyes, and in your lifetime—the sounds of joy and celebration, the voices of the bridegroom and the bride will no longer be heard here.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when you present all these words to the people, they will ask you, 'Why has the LORD declared such severe judgment against us? What wrongdoing have we committed? What sin have we committed against the LORD our God?'</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall say to them, "Because your ancestors have abandoned me, declares the LORD, and have followed other gods, serving and worshiping them. They have forsaken me and have not obeyed my law."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have acted even more wickedly than your ancestors, for each of you follows the stubborn desires of your own evil heart, refusing to listen to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will drive you out of this land into a land that neither you nor your ancestors have known. There you will serve other gods day and night, for I will show you no mercy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully, the time is coming, declares the LORD, when people will no longer say, "As surely as the LORD lives, who brought the Israelites out of the land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But as surely as the LORD lives—the one who brought the Israelites out of the land of the north and from all the countries where he had scattered them—I will bring them back to their own land, the land I gave to their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for this is what the LORD declares: I will summon many fishermen, and they will gather them in like fish from the sea. Afterward, I will call for many hunters, and they will pursue them from every mountain, every hill, and even from the crevices of the rocks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For my eyes are upon all their actions: nothing is concealed from my sight, nor is their wrongdoing hidden from my eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">First, I will repay them double for their iniquity and their sin, because they have defiled My land and filled My inheritance with the lifeless bodies of their detestable idols and abominable practices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, my strength, my fortress, and my safe haven in times of trouble, the nations will come to you from the farthest corners of the earth and declare, "Truly, our ancestors passed down to us nothing but falsehoods, empty idols, and things that bring no benefit."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Can a person create gods for themselves, even though they are not truly gods?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, take notice: this one time I will make them understand; I will show them my power and my strength. Then they will come to know that my name is the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>