<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Corinthians Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sf5kgg.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4d73c380-8ebd-701c-75d7-d8d704333d37" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Corinthians Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Does any of you, when you have a dispute with someone, dare to take it before the unrighteous for judgment instead of bringing it before the holy ones?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are you not aware that the holy ones will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you not competent to handle even the most trivial disputes?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are you not aware that we will even judge angels? How much more, then, should we be able to handle matters pertaining to this life?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you have disputes concerning matters of this life, appoint those who are least esteemed in the church to judge them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I say this to your shame. Is it really true that there is no one among you who is wise? Not even one person who can settle disputes between fellow believers?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But now, one believer is taking another believer to court, and doing so before those who do not share our faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The situation among you is entirely unacceptable because you are taking legal action against one another. Why not instead choose to endure the wrong done to you? Why not allow yourselves to be wronged or cheated rather than resorting to such disputes?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No, you are acting unjustly and cheating, and you are doing this to your own fellow believers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are you not aware that those who practice unrighteousness will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither those who engage in sexual immorality, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor those who indulge in perverse behavior, nor those who exploit others for immoral purposes—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Thieves, the greedy, drunkards, those who speak abusively, and swindlers will not inherit the kingdom of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of you were once like that, but now you have been cleansed, made holy, and declared righteous in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Everything is permissible for me, but not everything is beneficial. Everything is permissible for me, but I will not allow anything to control me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Food is meant for the stomach, and the stomach for food, but God will do away with both of them. However, the body is not intended for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord is for the body.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God has raised the Lord from the dead and will also raise us up by His own power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do you not realize that your bodies are parts of Christ’s own body? How then could I take what belongs to Christ and unite it with a prostitute? Certainly not!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do you not understand that whoever unites with a prostitute becomes one body with her? For it is said, "The two will become one flesh."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But whoever is united with the Lord becomes one in spirit with Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Avoid sexual immorality at all costs. While every other sin a person commits is external to the body, the one who engages in sexual immorality sins against their own body.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do you not realize that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit, who dwells within you and whom you have received from God? You do not belong to yourselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have been purchased at a great cost; therefore, honor God with your body and your spirit, for they belong to God.</span></p>






</body></html>