<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 61</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sf87b6.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:065e33cc-51b2-7d9c-8f5e-aaa5c473c3c7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 61</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Spirit of the Sovereign LORD is upon me, because the LORD has chosen and appointed me to bring good news to the humble and oppressed. He has sent me to heal those whose hearts are shattered, to declare freedom for those held captive, and to release from darkness those who are bound in chains. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To announce the year of the LORD's favor and the day of our God's justice; to bring comfort to all who grieve.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To bring comfort to those who grieve in Zion, to bestow upon them splendor in place of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, and a robe of praise in exchange for a spirit of despair. They will be called oaks of righteousness, planted by the LORD, so that He may be glorified.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will rebuild the ancient ruins; they will restore the places long devastated; they will repair the ruined cities, the desolations that have endured for generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Foreigners will come and tend your flocks, and the children of outsiders will be your plowmen and vineyard workers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you will be called the Priests of the LORD; people will refer to you as the Servants of our God. You will partake of the wealth of the nations, and you will take pride in their splendor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instead of your shame, you will receive a double portion; instead of disgrace, they will celebrate their share. Therefore, in their land, they will inherit a double portion, and everlasting joy will be theirs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I, the LORD, love justice; I detest theft and wrongdoing, even when disguised as offerings. I will guide their actions with integrity, and I will establish with them an eternal covenant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their descendants will be recognized among the nations, and their offspring among the peoples. All who see them will acknowledge that they are the offspring whom the LORD has blessed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will rejoice greatly in the LORD; my soul will exult in my God. For he has clothed me with the garments of salvation and wrapped me in the robe of righteousness, just as a bridegroom adorns himself with fine attire and a bride embellishes herself with her jewels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as the earth produces its shoots and the garden makes the seeds planted in it sprout and grow, so the Lord GOD will bring forth righteousness and praise to flourish in the sight of all nations.</span></p>






</body></html>