<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sf8xuo.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0c8b2b81-d8aa-2349-4e79-29a90d8fb6e1" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must carefully follow all the commands I am giving you today, so that you may live, increase in number, and enter and take possession of the land that the LORD promised to your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must remember the entire journey that the LORD your God led you through during these forty years in the wilderness. He did this to humble you, to test you, and to reveal what was in your heart—whether you would keep His commandments or not.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He brought you low and allowed you to hunger, then fed you with manna, which neither you nor your ancestors had known, so that He might teach you that human beings do not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your clothing did not wear out, nor did your feet swell, throughout these forty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must also reflect deeply in your heart that just as a father disciplines his son, so the LORD your God disciplines you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must obey the commandments of the LORD your God, living according to His ways and revering Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD your God is bringing you into a good land—a land with streams of water, with springs and deep sources that flow from the valleys and hills.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A land abundant with wheat, barley, vines, fig trees, and pomegranates; a land rich in olive oil and honey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A land where you will eat bread without scarcity, and where you will lack nothing; a land whose rocks are rich in iron, and from whose hills you can mine copper.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you have eaten and are satisfied, you shall give thanks to the LORD your God for the good land He has given you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful not to forget the LORD your God by failing to observe His commandments, His ordinances, and His statutes, which I am instructing you today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful that when you have eaten and are satisfied, and have built fine houses and settled in them,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When your herds and flocks increase, and your silver and gold grow abundant, and all that you possess becomes plentiful,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, when your heart becomes proud and you forget the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, from the place of slavery;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who guided you through that vast and fearsome wilderness, where there were venomous snakes, scorpions, and parched land with no water? Who brought water out of the solid rock for you?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who provided for you in the wilderness with manna, something your ancestors had never known, in order to humble you and test you, so that he might ultimately bring about your well-being in the days to come.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you may think to yourself, "My own strength and the power of my hands have gained me this wealth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you must remember the LORD your God, for it is He who gives you the ability to produce wealth, so that He may confirm His covenant, which He swore to your ancestors, as it is today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you ever forget the LORD your God, turn to follow other gods, serve them, and bow down to them, I solemnly warn you today that you will certainly be destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as the nations that the LORD destroyed before you, so too will you perish, because you refused to obey the voice of the LORD your God.</span></p>






</body></html>