<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sf9vqr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5a8c9f70-2498-a95d-e782-a8e469409705" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I stood on the seashore and saw a beast rising out of the sea. It had seven heads and ten horns, with ten crowns on its horns. On its heads were written names that blasphemed God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The creature I saw resembled a leopard, with feet like those of a bear and a mouth like that of a lion. The dragon granted this beast its power, its throne, and immense authority.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw that one of its heads appeared to have been fatally wounded, but the mortal wound was healed. The whole world was filled with amazement and followed after the beast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they paid homage to the dragon, who had granted authority to the beast. They also worshipped the beast, declaring, "Who can compare to the beast? Who is powerful enough to wage war against him?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he was granted the ability to speak with bold and arrogant words, including blasphemies against God. He was also given authority to exercise this power for a period of forty-two months.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he spoke with defiant words against God, insulting His name, His dwelling place, and those who reside in heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And authority was granted to him to wage war against God’s holy people and to conquer them. He was also given power over every tribe, people, language, and nation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all who live on the earth will worship him—those whose names are not recorded in the book of life belonging to the Lamb, who was slain from the very creation of the world.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone is able to listen, let them pay attention.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who takes others captive will himself be taken captive; the one who kills with the sword will himself be killed by the sword. This calls for the endurance and faithfulness of God’s people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw another beast rising out of the earth. It had two horns like those of a lamb, but it spoke with the voice of a dragon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He wields all the authority of the first beast in its presence and compels the earth and its inhabitants to worship the first beast, whose fatal wound had been healed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he performs extraordinary miracles, causing fire to descend from heaven to the earth in full view of people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he deceives those who live on the earth through the miraculous signs he is empowered to perform in the presence of the beast. He tells those who dwell on the earth to create an image in honor of the beast, the one who was wounded by the sword and yet survived.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was granted the authority to bring life to the image of the beast, so that the image could speak and cause all who refused to worship it to be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he compels everyone—both the insignificant and the prominent, the wealthy and the impoverished, the free and the enslaved—to receive a mark on their right hand or on their forehead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And no one will be allowed to buy or sell unless they have the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number representing his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here is wisdom: Let the one who has insight calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a person, and his number is six hundred sixty-six.</span></p>






</body></html>