<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Hebrews Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sfaogg.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5964055b-76a7-45cd-365e-f5acd6a45995" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Hebrews Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here is the essence of what we have been discussing: We have a high priest who has taken his place at the right hand of the throne of the Divine Majesty in heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A servant of the holy place and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord himself established, not built by human hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every high priest is appointed to present gifts and sacrifices; therefore, it is necessary for this man also to have something to offer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if he were on earth, he would not even be a priest, since there are already priests who present offerings according to the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These individuals serve in a role that reflects and symbolizes the heavenly realities, just as Moses was instructed by God when he was about to construct the tabernacle. For God said, "Be sure to make everything according to the pattern that was shown to you on the mountain."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But now he has received a far superior ministry, to the degree that he is also the mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted on the basis of better promises.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the first covenant had been without flaw, there would have been no need to seek a replacement for it with a second one.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For when God found fault with them, He said, "Listen, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is not like the covenant I made with their ancestors when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. They did not remain faithful to my covenant, so I turned away from them, declares the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the covenant I will establish with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord: I will place my laws in their minds and inscribe them on their hearts. I will be their God, and they will be my people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they will no longer need to teach one another, each person saying to their neighbor or brother, “Know the Lord,” for all of them will know me, from the least to the greatest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will show mercy concerning their wrongdoing, and I will no longer hold their sins and transgressions against them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When it is said, "A new covenant," it means the first one has become obsolete. And what is obsolete and growing old is close to disappearing entirely.</span></p>






</body></html>