<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 24</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sfbxxd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9e6b1fd3-ba05-9341-dac1-a8d3760fd596" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 24</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man takes a wife and marries her, but it happens that she no longer pleases him because he has found something indecent or improper about her, he may write her a certificate of divorce, place it in her hand, and send her away from his house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if she leaves his house, she is free to go and become the wife of another man.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the second husband comes to hate her and writes her a certificate of divorce, places it in her hand, and sends her away from his house, or if the second husband who married her dies, then her first husband, who divorced her, is not permitted to take her back as his wife after she has been defiled. This would be detestable before the Lord, and you must not bring guilt upon the land the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man divorces his wife and sends her away, he may not take her back as his wife after she has been defiled by another man, for that would be detestable in the sight of the LORD. You must not bring guilt upon the land that the LORD your God is giving you as your inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When a man has recently married, he must not be sent to war or assigned any duty. He is to remain free at home for one year, so that he may bring joy to the wife he has married.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one shall take a person's lower or upper millstone as security for a debt, for doing so is equivalent to taking their very livelihood as a pledge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone is found kidnapping any of their fellow Israelites and treating them as property, or selling them, then that thief must be put to death. In this way, you will remove such wickedness from your community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be very careful regarding the disease of leprosy, ensuring that you pay close attention and follow all the instructions that the Levitical priests give you. Just as I have commanded them, you must be diligent in obeying and carrying out their guidance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remember what the LORD your God did to Miriam on the journey after you had come out of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you lend something to your neighbor, you must not enter their house to take the item they have given as security.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall wait outside, and the person to whom you are lending shall bring the collateral out to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the man is poor, you must not keep his pledged item overnight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In any case, you must return the pledge to him by sunset, so that he may sleep in his own clothing and bless you. This will be counted as an act of righteousness for you before the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not exploit a hired worker who is poor and needy, whether they are one of your fellow Israelites or a foreigner residing in your land within your towns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the day he earns his wages, you must pay him his due, and do not let the sun set on it, for he is poor and depends on it. Otherwise, he may cry out to the LORD against you, and you will be guilty of sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Parents shall not be executed for the wrongdoing of their children, nor shall children be executed for the wrongdoing of their parents. Each person shall be held accountable and face the consequences for their own sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not distort the justice due to the foreigner or the fatherless, nor take a widow’s garment as security.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you must remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and the LORD your God rescued you from there. That is why I am commanding you to do this.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you harvest your crops in your field and accidentally leave a sheaf behind, do not go back to retrieve it. Instead, let it remain for the foreigner, the orphan, and the widow, so that the LORD your God may bless you in all the work of your hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you harvest your olive trees, do not go back over the branches to gather what remains. Leave what is left for the foreigner, the orphan, and the widow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you gather the grapes from your vineyard, do not go back to collect what is left behind. Leave it for the foreigner, the orphan, and the widow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt; for this reason, I am commanding you to do this.</span></p>






</body></html>