<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 36</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sfc56p.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4f6955f5-3132-06f8-e472-fa5fe2c937cf" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 36</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah’s reign, Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, advanced against all the fortified cities of Judah and captured them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Assyria dispatched Rabshakeh from Lachish to Jerusalem with a large military force to confront King Hezekiah. Rabshakeh took his position by the aqueduct of the upper pool, along the road leading to the launderer's field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, who was in charge of the palace, came out to him, along with Shebna the secretary and Joah, the son of Asaph, the official recorder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the Rabshakeh said to them, "Tell Hezekiah this message from the great king, the king of Assyria: What is this confidence you rely on?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You say, "I have wise advice and strength for war"—but these are empty words. On whom are you relying, that you dare to rebel against me?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Behold, you are relying on this splintered reed, Egypt, for support. If someone leans on it, it will break and pierce their hand. Such is Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to all who put their trust in him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you say to me, "We trust in the LORD our God," is it not He whose high places and altars Hezekiah has removed, commanding Judah and Jerusalem, "You shall worship only before this altar"?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I urge you to make a binding agreement with my master, the king of Assyria, and I will provide you with two thousand horses—if you are able to supply riders for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How then can you turn away even one of the least of my master’s officers and put your trust in Egypt for chariots and horsemen?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Am I now advancing against this land to destroy it without the Lord's command? The Lord himself instructed me, "Go up against this land and destroy it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Eliakim, Shebna, and Joah said to the Rabshakeh, "Please, speak to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it. Do not speak to us in Hebrew in the hearing of the people who are on the wall."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Rabshakeh replied, "Has my master sent me to speak these words only to your master and to you? Has he not also sent me to address the men sitting on the wall, who will soon be reduced to eating their own excrement and drinking their own urine along with you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Rabshakeh stood and called out in a loud voice, speaking in the language of the Jews, saying, "Listen to the words of the great king, the king of Assyria!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the king says: Do not let Hezekiah mislead you, for he cannot save you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not let Hezekiah persuade you to place your trust in the LORD by saying, “The LORD will certainly rescue us; this city will not be handed over to the king of Assyria.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not listen to Hezekiah, for this is what the king of Assyria says: Make peace with me by offering a gift, and come out to surrender to me. Then each of you will eat from your own vine and your own fig tree, and each of you will drink water from your own cistern.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Until I arrive and bring you to a land similar to your own—a land abundant with grain and wine, a land rich in bread and vineyards.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful not to let Hezekiah mislead you by saying, “The LORD will rescue us.” Has any god of the nations ever saved their land from the power of the king of Assyria?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? Have they been able to rescue Samaria from my power?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Which of the gods of these nations has been able to rescue their land from my power? How then can the LORD deliver Jerusalem from my hand?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But they remained silent and did not respond with a single word, for the king had given a command, saying, "Do not answer him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, who was in charge of the royal household, along with Shebna the secretary and Joah, the son of Asaph, the court recorder, came to Hezekiah. Their garments were torn as a sign of distress, and they reported to him the words spoken by Rabshakeh.</span></p>






</body></html>