<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Daniel Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sfky3r.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:542a3d0a-d04a-003b-64cb-c9e29714e211" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Daniel Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, Michael, the great prince who stands as a protector for your people, will arise. There will be a time of distress unlike any that has occurred since nations first existed until that very moment. Yet during that time, your people—everyone whose name is recorded in the book—will be delivered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many of those who lie dead in the dust of the earth will rise again—some to eternal life, and others to disgrace and eternal shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who are wise will shine like the brightness of the heavens, and those who lead many to righteousness will glow like the stars forever and ever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you, Daniel, keep these words secret and seal up the book until the time of the end. Many will go here and there, seeking understanding, and knowledge will greatly increase.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I, Daniel, looked and saw two other beings standing, one on this side of the riverbank and the other on the opposite side of the riverbank.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And someone asked the man dressed in linen, who was standing above the waters of the river, "How long will it be until the end of these extraordinary events?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I heard the man dressed in linen, who stood above the waters of the river, raise both his right hand and his left hand toward heaven and swear by the One who lives forever, saying, "It will be for a time, times, and half a time. When the power of the holy people is finally broken, all these things will be fulfilled."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I heard the words, but I did not understand their meaning. So I said, "My Lord, what will be the outcome of these things?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "Go on your way, Daniel, for these words are concealed and sealed until the time of the end."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many will be purified, cleansed, and refined, but the wicked will continue in their wickedness. None of the wicked will gain understanding, but those who are wise will comprehend.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the time when the regular daily offering is removed and the detestable thing that causes desolation is set up, there will be 1,290 days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Blessed is the one who patiently endures and reaches the end of the 1,335 days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But as for you, continue on your path until the end comes. You will rest, and at the appointed time, you will rise to receive your allotted inheritance in the final days.</span></p>






</body></html>