<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sfljiz.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:381dcb45-7efb-c086-cca8-a05c1b95c8dc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to Aaron, his sons, and all the people of Israel, and tell them: This is what the LORD has commanded, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Any person from the house of Israel who slaughters an ox, a lamb, or a goat, whether within the camp or outside of it,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone does not bring the animal to the entrance of the tent of meeting to present it as an offering to the LORD before the tabernacle of the LORD, that person will be held accountable for bloodshed—they have shed blood. As a result, that individual must be cut off from among their people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is so that the people of Israel may bring their sacrifices, which they have been offering in the open fields, to the Lord at the entrance of the tent of meeting, to the priest. There, they are to present them as peace offerings to the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall sprinkle the blood on the altar of the LORD at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and he shall burn the fat as a pleasing aroma to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people must no longer offer their sacrifices to demonic spirits, which they have pursued in unfaithfulness. This will be a permanent regulation for them, binding throughout all their generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you shall say to them: If any person from the house of Israel or any foreigner living among you offers a burnt offering or sacrifice,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone does not bring the offering to the entrance of the tent of meeting to present it to the LORD, that person must be cut off from their community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any person, whether from the house of Israel or a foreigner living among you, consumes any kind of blood, I will turn my attention against that individual who eats blood and will remove them from the community of their people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The life of a living being resides in its blood, and I have given it to you to be offered on the altar as a means of atonement for your lives. It is the blood, through its life-giving power, that makes atonement for the soul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I instructed the people of Israel: No one among you may consume blood, nor may any foreigner living among you eat blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any person among the Israelites or among the foreigners living with them hunts and catches any wild animal or bird that is permitted to be eaten, they must drain its blood and cover it with dirt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the life of all living beings is in their blood; the blood itself sustains their life. Therefore, I have instructed the people of Israel: You must not consume the blood of any creature, because the life of every living being is in its blood. Whoever consumes blood will be cut off from the community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone, whether a native or a foreigner, eats an animal that has died naturally or has been killed by wild animals, they must wash their clothes and bathe in water. They will remain ceremonially unclean until evening, after which they will be considered clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if he does not wash his clothes or bathe his body, he will remain guilty of his sin.</span></p>






</body></html>