<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sflrdv.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d94e238f-5ae5-ed5b-ccb2-666a09c3a368" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the men who came to David at Ziklag while he was still in hiding from Saul, the son of Kish. These men were among the warriors who assisted him in battle, and they were known for their strength and valor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were skilled with bows and could use both their right and left hands to sling stones and shoot arrows from a bow. These were Saul's kinsmen from the tribe of Benjamin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leader was Ahiezer, followed by Joash, the sons of Shemaah from Gibeah; and Jeziel and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth; as well as Berachah and Jehu from Anathoth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a valiant warrior among the Thirty and a leader over the Thirty; along with Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, and Josabad the Gederathite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elkanah, Jesiah, Azareel, Joezer, and Jashobeam, who were descendants of Korah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Joelah and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham from Gedor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Gad, mighty warriors joined David at his stronghold in the wilderness. These were battle-ready men, skilled in combat, trained to wield both shield and spear. Their faces were as fierce as lions, and they were as swift as gazelles on the mountains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ezer was the first, Obadiah the second, and Eliab the third.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mishmannah was the fourth, and Jeremiah was the fifth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Attai was the sixth, and Eliel was the seventh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Johanan was the eighth, and Elzabad was the ninth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeremiah was the tenth, and Machbanai was the eleventh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These were among the descendants of Gad, leaders of the army: the least of them commanded a hundred men, and the greatest commanded a thousand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the ones who crossed the Jordan River in the first month, when it had overflowed all its banks. They drove out all the inhabitants of the valleys, both to the east and to the west.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then some from the tribe of Benjamin and Judah came to David at the stronghold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David went out to meet them and responded, saying, "If you have come to me in peace to offer your help, my heart will be united with yours. But if you have come to betray me to my enemies, even though I have done no wrong, may the God of our ancestors see this and bring judgment upon it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Spirit came upon Amasai, who was the leader of the captains, and he declared, "We are yours, David, and we stand with you, son of Jesse. May peace be upon you, and peace to those who support you, for your God is your help." David welcomed them and appointed them as commanders of his troops.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some men from the tribe of Manasseh joined David when he went with the Philistines to fight against Saul. However, they did not actually help the Philistines in battle. This was because the Philistine leaders, after careful consideration, sent David away, saying, "He might turn against us and rejoin his master Saul, putting our lives at risk."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As David traveled to Ziklag, several leaders from the tribe of Manasseh joined him: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu, and Zilthai. These men were commanders of thousands, serving under Manasseh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They supported David against the raiding bands, for they were all courageous and capable warriors, serving as commanders in the army.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, people came to David day after day to support him, until his forces grew into a vast army, as mighty as the army of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the counts of the troops who came to David at Hebron, fully equipped for battle, to transfer the kingdom of Saul to him, in accordance with the word of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Judah who carried shield and spear numbered six thousand eight hundred, fully equipped and prepared for battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Simeon, there were seven thousand one hundred warriors, strong and courageous men, ready for battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Levi, there were four thousand six hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoiada was the chief of the descendants of Aaron, and with him were three thousand seven hundred men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Zadok, a young man of great courage, along with twenty-two leaders from his father’s family.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Benjamin, Saul’s relatives, there were three thousand men, for up to that time, the majority of them had remained loyal to the house of Saul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Ephraim came twenty thousand eight hundred men, all strong and courageous warriors, renowned among their ancestral families.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the half-tribe of Manasseh, eighteen thousand men were designated by name to come and proclaim David as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Issachar, there were men who possessed insight into the times and understood what Israel should do. Their leaders numbered two hundred, and all their fellow tribesmen followed their direction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Zebulun, there were fifty thousand skilled warriors, trained for battle and equipped with all the weapons of war. They were disciplined, maintaining their ranks with precision, and their loyalty was unwavering—they were not divided in heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Naphtali, there were one thousand leaders, accompanied by thirty-seven thousand warriors armed with shields and spears.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from the tribe of Dan, there were twenty-eight thousand six hundred men skilled in warfare.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Asher, there were forty thousand warriors, skilled and experienced in battle, ready to go out to war.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eastern side of the Jordan River, the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh gathered, fully equipped with every kind of weapon for battle, numbering one hundred and twenty thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All these skilled warriors, who could maintain formation in battle, came to Hebron with complete loyalty and sincerity to establish David as king over all Israel. Moreover, the rest of Israel was united in purpose, fully committed to making David their king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they stayed with David for three days, eating and drinking, because their relatives had provided for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, those who lived nearby, extending to the territories of Issachar, Zebulun, and Naphtali, brought provisions on donkeys, camels, mules, and oxen. They supplied bread, food, fig cakes, clusters of raisins, wine, oil, cattle, and sheep in great abundance. For there was great rejoicing throughout Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>