<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sfnujq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b25c353f-83b2-3033-5c35-98ec10650b21" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, declares the LORD, they will remove the bones of the kings of Judah, the bones of their officials, the bones of the priests, the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the residents of Jerusalem from their graves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will spread out the remains before the sun, the moon, and all the stars of heaven—the very things they have loved, served, followed, sought after, and worshiped. These remains will not be gathered or buried; instead, they will lie like waste on the surface of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord of hosts declares: "All the remaining members of this wicked family, those who survive in every place where I have driven them, will prefer death over life."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, you are to tell them this message from the LORD: "If people fall, will they not rise again? If someone turns away, will they not return?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why, then, has this people of Jerusalem turned away in persistent rebellion? They cling to deception and stubbornly refuse to repent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I listened attentively, but they did not speak rightly. No one repented of their wickedness, asking, "What have I done?" Instead, each person turned back to their own way, like a horse charging headlong into battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even the stork in the sky knows its appointed seasons; the dove, the crane, and the swallow keep to the time of their migration. Yet my people do not recognize the just decrees of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How can you claim, "We are wise, and the law of the LORD is with us"? Look, the truth is that the law has been made ineffective; the scribes' pen has written it in vain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wise are put to shame, filled with terror, and caught in their own folly. Look, they have rejected the word of the LORD; so what kind of wisdom do they truly possess?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will hand over their wives to others, and their fields to those who will take possession of them. For everyone, from the least to the greatest, is consumed by greed. From the prophet to the priest, all of them act deceitfully.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they have treated the wound of my people carelessly, declaring, "Peace, peace," when there is no peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Did they feel any shame after committing such detestable acts? No, they felt no shame at all; they could not even blush. Because of this, they will fall among those who fall. When the time of their judgment comes, they will be brought down, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord declares, "I will certainly bring destruction upon them. There will be no grapes left on the vine, nor figs on the fig tree; even the leaves will wither. Everything I have provided for them will be taken away."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why are we sitting here doing nothing? Gather together, and let us flee to the fortified cities, where we can remain silent. For the LORD our God has silenced us and given us bitter water to drink, because we have sinned against Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We sought peace, but nothing good came of it; we hoped for a time of healing, but instead, trouble appeared!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sound of his horses' snorting was heard as far as Dan; the whole land shook at the noise of their powerful neighing. For they have come and consumed the land and everything in it—the cities and all who live in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for I am about to send venomous snakes and deadly serpents among you, creatures that cannot be tamed or controlled by any charm. They will strike and bite you, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I seek to find comfort in the midst of my sorrow, my heart grows weak within me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to the anguished cry of my people’s children, echoing from those who live in distant lands: Is the LORD no longer in Zion? Is her King no longer present among her? Why have they stirred my anger with their carved idols and their worthless foreign gods?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The harvest has come to an end, the summer season is over, yet we remain without deliverance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am deeply pained by the suffering of my people; I grieve for their wounds. My heart is filled with sorrow, and I am overcome with shock and dismay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is there no healing remedy in Gilead? Is there no skilled healer there? Why, then, has the well-being of my people not been restored?</span></p>






</body></html>