<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sfq3bb.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:84568cb3-6ddb-d810-3400-a5f6b551767b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that time, there was no king ruling over Israel. In those days, the tribe of the Danites was searching for a territory to settle in as their inheritance, because up to that point, they had not yet received their allotted portion among the tribes of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The tribe of Dan sent five men from their clans, chosen from their territories—brave men from Zorah and Eshtaol—to scout and explore the land. They instructed them, saying, “Go and investigate the land.” When they arrived at the hill country of Ephraim, they came to Micah’s house and stayed there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they passed by Micah’s house, they recognized the voice of the young Levite. They turned aside and went in, asking him, “Who brought you here? What are you doing in this place? And what do you have here?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to them, "This is what Micah has done for me: he has hired me, and I have become his priest."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to him, "Please seek guidance from God, so that we may know whether the path we are taking will lead to success."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest said to them, "Go in peace. The LORD is with you on the journey you are undertaking."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the five men left and went to Laish, where they observed the people living there. They saw how the inhabitants lived in a carefree manner, following the customs of the Sidonians—peaceful and secure. There was no ruler in the land to hold them accountable or bring them to shame for anything. They were far removed from the Sidonians and had no dealings or alliances with anyone else.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They went to their relatives in Zorah and Eshtaol, and their relatives asked them, "What do you have to report?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "Get up, so we can attack them, for we have seen the land, and it is very good. Why are you hesitating? Do not be lazy or reluctant to go and take possession of the land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you go, you will come to a people living in safety and to a vast land, for God has given it into your hands—a place where there is no lack of anything that exists on the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the family of the Danites, six hundred men armed for war set out from Zorah and Eshtaol.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They went up and camped at Kirjath-jearim in Judah. For this reason, they named that place Mahaneh-dan, and it is still called that to this day. It is located west of Kirjath-jearim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They then traveled from there to the hill country of Ephraim and arrived at Micah’s house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the five men who had gone to scout out the land of Laish responded and said to their relatives, "Are you aware that in these houses there is an ephod, household idols, a carved image, and a cast metal image? Now think carefully about what you should do."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They turned in that direction and went to the house of the young Levite, which was also the house of Micah, and greeted him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The six hundred men armed for battle, who were from the tribe of Dan, took their positions at the entrance of the gate, ready with their weapons of war.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The five men who had gone to scout out the land went up, entered the house, and took the carved image, the ephod, the household idols, and the cast metal image. Meanwhile, the priest stood at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred armed men who were equipped for battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they entered Micah’s house and took the carved idol, the ephod, the household gods, and the cast metal image. The priest then asked them, “What are you doing?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to him, "Be silent, put your hand over your mouth, and come with us. Be a father and a priest to us. Is it better for you to serve as a priest for the household of one man, or to serve as a priest for an entire tribe and family in Israel?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest’s heart was filled with joy, and he took the ephod, the household idols, and the carved image, then went out among the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they turned and left, placing the children, the livestock, and the carts ahead of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they had traveled a considerable distance from Micah’s house, the men who lived in the houses near Micah’s home gathered together and pursued the people of Dan, catching up to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They called out to the men of Dan, who turned around and said to Micah, “What is the matter with you, that you have come with such a large group?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "You have taken away the gods I made, along with the priest, and now you have left. What do I have left? And why do you ask me, 'What is troubling you?'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Dan said to him, "Do not let your voice be heard among us, or else some hot-tempered men may attack you, and you will lose your life, along with the lives of your household."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Danites continued on their journey, and when Micah realized that they were too powerful for him to resist, he turned around and returned to his home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They took the idols that Micah had made, along with the priest who served them, and went to Laish, a peaceful and unsuspecting people. They attacked the city with the sword, killing its inhabitants, and then set the city on fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was no one to rescue them because they were far from Sidon and had no dealings with anyone. The place was in the valley near Beth-rehob. They built a city there and settled in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They named the city Dan, after their ancestor Dan, who was one of the sons of Israel. However, the city was originally called Laish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Dan set up the carved idol, and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, who was the son of Manasseh, along with his sons, served as priests for the tribe of Dan. This continued until the time when the land was taken into captivity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They established Micah’s carved image, which he had made, and it remained there throughout the entire period that the house of God was located in Shiloh.</span></p>






</body></html>