<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 54</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sfwkay.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a3eacd99-088c-d924-dbd8-8c9f0cbbae36" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 54</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sing with joy, you who have never borne children; burst into song and shout aloud, you who have never experienced labor pains. For the children of the forsaken will be more numerous than the children of the married woman, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Expand the space of your dwelling, and stretch out the curtains of your tents without holding back. Extend the length of your ropes and secure your stakes firmly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you will expand to the right and to the left; your descendants will possess the nations and will resettle the deserted cities, making them inhabited once more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be afraid, for you will not be disgraced; do not be dismayed, for you will not be humiliated. You will forget the shame of your earlier days and no longer recall the disgrace of your past widowhood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For your Creator is your husband—the LORD of hosts is his name—and your Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel. He will be called the God of all the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD has called you like a woman abandoned and deeply distressed in spirit, like a wife married in youth who was then rejected, says your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"For a brief moment I abandoned you, but with deep compassion I will bring you back together."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In a brief moment of anger, I turned my face away from you, but with unfailing love and everlasting kindness, I will show you mercy, declares the LORD, your Redeemer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is like the days of Noah to me: just as I swore that the waters of Noah would never again cover the earth, so I have sworn that I will not be angry with you or rebuke you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if the mountains were to crumble and the hills vanish, my steadfast love for you will never fade, nor will my covenant of peace be broken, declares the LORD, who shows you mercy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O you who are suffering, battered by storms and without comfort, listen: I will set your stones with beautiful colors and establish your foundations with sapphires.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will fashion your windows with precious stones like agates, and your gates with gleaming gems such as carbuncles. All your boundaries will be adorned with beautiful, delightful stones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All your children will be instructed by the LORD, and your children's well-being will be abundant. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be firmly established in righteousness; you will be far from oppression, for you will have no reason to fear, and from terror, for it will not come near you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: they will indeed assemble and unite, but not by my command or approval. Whoever comes together to oppose you will stumble and fall because of you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, I am the one who created the blacksmith who fans the coals into flame and forges tools for his craft. I am also the one who created the destroyer to bring devastation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No weapon crafted against you will succeed, and every accusation raised against you in judgment will be refuted. This is the inheritance of the servants of the LORD, and their righteousness comes from me, declares the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>