<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sfydzf.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a45cdf67-6f1c-3194-bca5-796757807943" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the messenger of the church in Ephesus, write: These are the words of the one who holds the seven stars in his right hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am aware of your deeds, your hard work, and your perseverance. I know that you cannot tolerate those who are wicked, and you have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not, and you have found them to be false.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have endured, shown patience, and worked diligently for the sake of my name without growing weary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I have this against you: you have abandoned the love you had at first.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, recall from where you have fallen, turn back, and resume the deeds you did at first. If you do not repent, I will come to you swiftly and remove your lampstand from its place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you have this in your favor: you despise the actions of the Nicolaitans, just as I also despise them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever has the ability to listen, let them pay attention to what the Spirit is saying to the churches. To the one who perseveres and triumphs, I will grant the privilege of eating from the tree of life, which stands in the center of God’s paradise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the messenger of the church in Smyrna, write: This is what the One who is the First and the Last, who was dead and is now alive, says:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am aware of your deeds, your suffering, and your poverty—though you are truly rich—and I know the slander of those who claim to be Jews but are not, for they are a gathering of Satan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not fear any of the things you are about to endure. Listen carefully: the devil will throw some of you into prison so that you may be tested, and you will face suffering for ten days. Remain faithful even to the point of death, and I will give you the crown of life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let those who have the ability to listen pay attention to what the Spirit is saying to the churches. The one who remains victorious will not be harmed by the second death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to the messenger of the congregation in Pergamum, write: These are the words of the one who holds the sharp, double-edged sword:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am aware of your deeds and where you live—where Satan has established his throne. Yet you remain steadfast in holding to my name and have not renounced your faith in me, even during the time when Antipas, my faithful witness, was put to death among you, in the very place where Satan resides.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I have a few concerns about you, because you tolerate among you those who follow the teaching of Balaam. He instructed Balak to place a stumbling block before the people of Israel, leading them to eat food sacrificed to idols and to engage in sexual immorality.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You also have among you those who follow the teachings of the Nicolaitans, a practice that I despise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Change your ways and turn back to me; otherwise, I will come to you swiftly and confront them with the judgment that comes from my words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever has the ability to listen, let them pay attention to what the Spirit is saying to the churches. To the one who overcomes, I will grant the privilege of eating from the hidden manna. I will also give them a white stone, and on that stone will be inscribed a new name, known only to the one who receives it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the messenger of the church in Thyatira, write: These are the words of the Son of God, whose eyes blaze like fiery flames and whose feet gleam like polished bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am aware of your deeds, your love, your faithfulness, your service, your endurance, and your recent works, which surpass what you did at first.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I have a few concerns about you, because you tolerate that woman Jezebel, who claims to be a prophetess. She is misleading and deceiving my servants, encouraging them to engage in sexual immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I gave her time and opportunity to turn away from her immoral ways, but she refused to change her behavior.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will cause her to be confined to a place of suffering, and those who have committed adultery with her will also face severe distress, unless they turn away from their actions and change their ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will strike her children dead, and all the churches will know that I am the one who examines the deepest thoughts and intentions of the heart. I will repay each of you according to your deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But to you and to the others in Thyatira who do not hold to this teaching and have not explored what some call "the depths of Satan," I say this: I will not impose any additional burden on you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hold firmly to what you have already received until I return.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who is victorious and remains faithful to my works until the end, I will grant authority over the nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he will govern them with an iron scepter; they will be shattered like clay pots, just as I have received authority from my Father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I will grant him the morning star.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever has the ability to listen, let them pay attention to what the Spirit is saying to the churches.</span></p>






</body></html>