<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sfzfg7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e07e0551-00e1-20d0-d9ff-18b5b39572aa" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jethro, the priest of Midian and Moses’ father-in-law, heard about all that God had done for Moses and for Israel, His people, and how the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after Moses had sent her away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she bore him two sons. The first was named Gershom, for Moses said, "I have been a foreigner in a distant land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The name of the second son was Eliezer, for he said, "The God of my father has been my help and rescued me from the sword of Pharaoh."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, came to Moses in the wilderness, bringing with him Moses' wife and sons. They arrived at the place where Moses was camped, near the mountain of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to Moses, "I, your father-in-law Jethro, have come to you, along with your wife and her two sons."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses went out to greet his father-in-law, bowed respectfully, and kissed him. They inquired about each other's well-being, and then they entered the tent together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses recounted to his father-in-law everything that the LORD had done to Pharaoh and the Egyptians for the sake of Israel, all the hardships they had endured along the journey, and how the LORD had rescued them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jethro was filled with joy because of all the good things the LORD had done for Israel, rescuing them from the power of the Egyptians.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jethro said, "Praise be to the LORD, who has rescued you from the power of the Egyptians and from the power of Pharaoh, and who has saved the people from the oppression of the Egyptians."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now I understand that the LORD is greater than all other gods, for in the very matter where they acted arrogantly, He demonstrated His supremacy over them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, presented a burnt offering and sacrifices to God. Then Aaron and all the elders of Israel came to share a meal with Moses' father-in-law in the presence of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, Moses took his seat to judge the disputes among the people, and they stood before him from morning until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Moses’ father-in-law saw all that he was doing for the people, he said, “What is this you are doing for the people? Why do you sit alone, with all the people standing around you from morning until evening?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to his father-in-law, "The people come to me seeking guidance from God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When people bring a dispute to me, I settle the matter between them and make known to them the decrees and instructions of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Moses’ father-in-law said to him, “What you are doing is not good.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will surely wear yourself out, both you and these people who are with you, because this task is too great for you; you cannot handle it alone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen now to my advice, and I will guide you, for God will be with you. You must represent the people before God, bringing their concerns and disputes to Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must instruct them in the statutes and laws, and show them the path they are to follow and the actions they are to carry out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, you must select from among all the people capable men—those who revere God, are trustworthy, and despise dishonest gain. Appoint them as leaders over the people, assigning them as officials over thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They should oversee the people at all times. They will bring to you only the most significant cases, while they will handle the smaller matters themselves. This will make your responsibilities lighter, and they will share the burden with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you do this thing, and God commands you to do so, then you will be able to stand firm, and all these people will also return to their homes in peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Moses listened to the advice of his father-in-law and carried out everything he had suggested.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses selected capable men from among all the Israelites and appointed them as leaders over the people, assigning them as overseers of thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They served as judges for the people at all times. They brought the difficult cases to Moses for resolution, but they handled the simpler matters themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses allowed his father-in-law to leave, and he returned to his own land.</span></p>






</body></html>