<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ecclesiastes Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sg2zz8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0c2cd191-a7ab-7f64-79aa-f48431cbc09c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ecclesiastes Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I said to myself, "Come now, I will test you with pleasure and enjoyment." But look, even this proved to be meaningless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I observed that laughter is foolish and that mirth accomplishes nothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I resolved in my heart to indulge in wine, yet still keeping my mind guided by wisdom. I also determined to embrace folly, so that I might discover what is truly good for people to do under the heavens during the limited days of their lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I undertook great projects; I built houses for myself; I planted vineyards for myself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I created gardens and orchards for myself, and in them I planted every kind of fruit tree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I constructed reservoirs of water to irrigate the groves where trees grow and flourish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I acquired servants and maids, and had servants born in my household. I also amassed great wealth in livestock, both large and small, surpassing all who were in Jerusalem before me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also accumulated silver and gold, the special treasures of kings and the wealth of various provinces. I acquired male and female singers, as well as the pleasures that people enjoy—musical instruments of every kind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I became great, surpassing all who had come before me in Jerusalem. Moreover, my wisdom stayed with me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I did not deny myself anything that my eyes desired, nor did I hold back my heart from any pleasure. My heart found joy in all my work, and this was the reward for all my labor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I considered all the works that my hands had accomplished and the labor I had toiled to complete. And behold, it was all meaningless, like chasing the wind, and there was no lasting gain to be found in anything under the sun.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I turned my attention to consider wisdom, madness, and folly. For what can anyone do who comes after the king? Only what has already been done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I observed that wisdom surpasses folly just as light surpasses darkness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wise person keeps their eyes focused and attentive, while the fool walks in ignorance and confusion. I have also observed that the same fate ultimately comes to both of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I thought to myself, "What happens to the fool will also happen to me. So why have I been so wise?" And I realized that this too is meaningless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For there is no lasting memory of the wise any more than of the fool, since in the days to come both will be forgotten. How does the wise person die? Just like the fool.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I came to despise life, for the labor carried out under the sun brought me nothing but distress. Everything is meaningless and a chasing after the wind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, I came to despise all the work I had done under the sun, because I would have to leave it to whoever comes after me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And who knows whether he will be wise or foolish? Yet he will have control over all the fruits of my labor, everything I have worked for and achieved with wisdom under the sun. This too is meaningless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I resolved to let my heart grow disheartened over all the toil I had undertaken under the sun.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There is a person who works with wisdom, knowledge, and skill, yet must leave the fruit of their labor to someone who did not toil for it. This too is meaningless and a great misfortune.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What does a person gain from all their toil and the troubles of their heart, in which they have labored under the sun?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For all his days are filled with pain, and his labor brings grief; even at night, his heart finds no rest. This too is meaningless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There is nothing better for a person than to eat and drink and find satisfaction in their work. This, too, I have observed, is a gift from the hand of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who can truly enjoy life or experience its pleasures more than I have?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God grants wisdom, knowledge, and joy to the one who is pleasing in His sight. But to the sinner, He assigns the labor of gathering and accumulating, only to give it to the one who is righteous before God. This too is meaningless and a chasing after the wind.</span></p>






</body></html>