<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Esther Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sg8qrc.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:832bb90c-3a8d-d376-2ed2-9f2416a46dd4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Esther Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the king and Haman went to dine with Queen Esther.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the second day, during the wine banquet, the king once again said to Esther, "What is your request, Queen Esther? It will be granted to you. And what is your desire? It will be fulfilled, even if it means giving you half of the kingdom."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Queen Esther responded, saying, "If I have found favor in your sight, O king, and if it pleases you, grant me my life as my petition, and the lives of my people as my request."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For we have been sold—both I and my people—to be annihilated, slaughtered, and utterly destroyed. Yet if we had merely been sold as male and female slaves, I would have remained silent, even though the enemy could never compensate for the loss this would bring to the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Ahasuerus responded and said to Queen Esther, "Who is this person, and where is he, who has dared to conceive such a thing in his heart?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Esther replied, "The adversary and enemy is this wicked Haman." At this, Haman became terrified in the presence of the king and the queen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king, enraged, rose from the wine banquet and went into the palace garden. Meanwhile, Haman stood up to plead with Queen Esther for his life, for he realized that the king had resolved to bring harm upon him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king returned from the palace garden to the banquet hall where the wine was served, and he saw Haman collapsed on the couch where Esther was reclining. The king exclaimed, "Is he even going to assault the queen in my presence, here in my own house?" As soon as these words left the king's mouth, they covered Haman's face.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Harbonah, one of the royal eunuchs, said to the king, "Look, there is the gallows, fifty cubits high, which Haman built for Mordecai, the man who spoke up to protect the king. It stands in Haman’s house." The king responded, "Hang him on it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they executed Haman on the gallows he had built for Mordecai. After this, the king’s anger was calmed.</span></p>






</body></html>