<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sgazia.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:eae12547-87d4-f333-2b29-314edcec9163" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 23</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the seventh year, Jehoiada gathered his courage and formed a covenant with the commanders of hundreds: Azariah son of Jeroham, Ishmael son of Jehohanan, Azariah son of Obed, Maaseiah son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat son of Zichri.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They traveled throughout Judah, gathering the Levites from all the cities of Judah and the leaders of the ancestral families of Israel. Then they came together in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire assembly entered into a solemn agreement with the king in the house of God. He declared to them, "Listen, the king’s son will rule, just as the LORD has promised concerning the descendants of David."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what you must do: One-third of you who enter on the Sabbath—both priests and Levites—shall serve as gatekeepers at the doors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One-third of the group will be stationed at the royal palace, one-third at the Foundation Gate, and all the people will gather in the courtyards of the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, no one is to enter the house of the LORD except the priests and those Levites who serve in ministry. They may enter because they are consecrated as holy. But all the rest of the people must observe the LORD's instructions and remain outside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites shall surround the king on all sides, each man armed with his weapons. Anyone who enters the temple without permission must be put to death. You must stay close to the king, accompanying him both when he enters and when he leaves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites and all the people of Judah carried out everything that Jehoiada the priest had instructed. Each man gathered those who were assigned to begin their service on the Sabbath, as well as those who were completing their duty on the Sabbath, for Jehoiada the priest did not dismiss the priestly divisions from their regular rotation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, Jehoiada the priest distributed to the commanders of the hundreds spears, small shields, and larger shields that had belonged to King David, which were stored in the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He stationed all the people, each man with his weapon in hand, from the south side of the temple to the north side of the temple, positioned near the altar and the temple, surrounding the king on all sides.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they brought out the king’s son, placed the crown on his head, and handed him the covenant scroll, proclaiming him king. Jehoiada and his sons anointed him and declared, “Long live the king!”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Athaliah heard the commotion of the people rushing about and shouting praises to the king, she went to the people in the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She looked, and there was the king standing by his pillar at the entrance, with the leaders and the trumpeters beside him. All the people of the land were filled with joy and were blowing trumpets, while the singers, accompanied by musical instruments, led the praises. Then Athaliah tore her clothes and cried out, "Treason! Treason!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jehoiada the priest summoned the commanders of the military units who were in charge of the troops and instructed them, "Bring her out from between the ranks, and anyone who follows her is to be put to death by the sword." For the priest had said, "Do not kill her within the house of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they seized her, and when she reached the entrance of the Horse Gate near the king’s palace, they put her to death there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoiada established a binding agreement between himself, all the people, and the king, pledging that they would live as the Lord’s people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the people went to the temple of Baal, tore it down, and smashed his altars and his idols into pieces. They also killed Mattan, the priest of Baal, right in front of the altars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoiada also assigned the duties of the house of the Lord to the priests and Levites, whom David had organized to serve in the Lord’s temple. Their responsibility was to present the burnt offerings to the Lord, as prescribed in the Law of Moses, with joy and singing, according to the arrangements David had established.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He stationed the gatekeepers at the entrances to the house of the LORD so that no one who was unclean in any way could enter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He gathered the commanders of the hundreds, the nobles, the leaders of the people, and all the citizens of the land. Then they escorted the king from the house of the LORD, passing through the upper gate into the royal palace, and seated the king on the throne of the kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people of the land celebrated with great joy, and the city remained peaceful after they had executed Athaliah by the sword.</span></p>






</body></html>