<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 34</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sgikab.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4ae8cc54-9a44-54de-eb8a-2138ddde1ea0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 34</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Josiah was eight years old when he became king, and he ruled in Jerusalem for thirty-one years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, following the ways of his ancestor David. He did not turn aside to the right or to the left, but remained steadfast in his obedience.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eighth year of his reign, while he was still young, he began to seek the God of his ancestor David. Then, in the twelfth year of his reign, he started to cleanse Judah and Jerusalem of the high places, the Asherah poles, the carved idols, and the cast images.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They tore down the altars of the Baals in his presence, and he cut down the sacred poles and idols that stood above them. He shattered the Asherah poles, the carved images, and the cast metal idols, crushing them into dust. Then he scattered the dust over the graves of those who had offered sacrifices to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He burned the bones of the priests on their altars and purified Judah and Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He carried out the same work in the cities of Manasseh, Ephraim, and Simeon, extending as far as Naphtali, using their tools to break down the altars and sacred poles in the surrounding areas.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had demolished the altars and the sacred poles, ground the carved idols into dust, and destroyed all the false gods throughout the entire land of Israel, he went back to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eighteenth year of his reign, after he had cleansed the land and the temple, King Josiah sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah, along with Maaseiah, the governor of the city, and Joah, the son of Joahaz, the royal secretary, to restore the house of the LORD his God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived at Hilkiah the high priest, they handed over the money that had been collected for the house of God. This money had been gathered by the Levites who were responsible for guarding the entrance gates, and it came from the people of Manasseh, Ephraim, and all the remaining tribes of Israel, as well as from all of Judah and Benjamin. After delivering the funds, they returned to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They entrusted the funds to the supervisors overseeing the work on the house of the LORD, who then distributed it to the laborers working on the temple. The money was used to repair and restore the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They gave the funds to the craftsmen and builders to purchase cut stone and timber for beams and to repair the structures that the kings of Judah had allowed to fall into ruin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men carried out their work with diligence and faithfulness. Their supervisors were Jahath and Obadiah, Levites from the descendants of Merari, as well as Zechariah and Meshullam from the descendants of the Kohathites, who oversaw the progress of the work. Additionally, other Levites, all who were skilled in playing musical instruments, were involved in the task.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were also in charge of the laborers and supervised all who performed any kind of work. Among the Levites, there were scribes, officials, and gatekeepers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they brought out the money that had been collected for the house of the LORD, Hilkiah the priest discovered a book containing the law of the LORD, which had been given through Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hilkiah responded and said to Shaphan the scribe, "I have discovered the Book of the Law in the house of the LORD." Then Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shaphan took the book to the king and reported back to him, saying, "Your servants have carried out everything that was entrusted to them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They collected the money that was discovered in the house of the LORD and entrusted it to the supervisors and the workers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Shaphan the secretary informed the king, saying, "Hilkiah the priest has given me a book." And Shaphan read it aloud in the presence of the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the king heard the words of the law, he tore his clothes in distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king gave orders to Hilkiah, Ahikam (son of Shaphan), Abdon (son of Micah), Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah, the king’s servant, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and seek the LORD’s guidance on my behalf, as well as for those who remain in Israel and Judah, concerning the message of the book that has been discovered. For the LORD’s fierce anger has been poured out upon us because our ancestors failed to obey the word of the LORD and did not follow all that is written in this book.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hilkiah and the men appointed by the king went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum son of Tikvath, son of Hasrah, who was the keeper of the wardrobe. She lived in Jerusalem in the Second District. They spoke to her about the matter at hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She replied to them, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: Tell the man who sent you to me..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "Listen carefully, I am about to bring disaster upon this place and its inhabitants—all the curses written in the book that was read in the presence of the king of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they have abandoned me and have offered sacrifices to other gods, provoking me to anger with all the things they have made with their hands, my fury will be poured out on this place and will not be extinguished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning the king of Judah, who sent you to seek guidance from the LORD, this is what you shall say to him: "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares regarding the words you have heard:"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because your heart was responsive and you humbled yourself before God when you heard His words concerning this place and its inhabitants, and because you humbled yourself before Me, tore your clothes, and wept in My presence, I have indeed heard you, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will bring you to join your ancestors, and you will be laid to rest in your grave in peace. Your eyes will not see all the disaster I am going to bring upon this place and its people.” Then they reported this message back to the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king sent messengers and assembled all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king ascended to the house of the LORD, accompanied by all the men of Judah, the residents of Jerusalem, the priests, the Levites, and all the people, both great and small. There, he read aloud in their hearing all the words of the book of the covenant that had been discovered in the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king stood in his place and made a solemn agreement before the LORD, committing himself to follow the LORD wholeheartedly and to obey his commandments, decrees, and instructions with all his heart and soul. He pledged to fulfill the terms of the covenant written in this book.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He made all those who were present in Jerusalem and Benjamin take a stand in support of it. The people of Jerusalem acted in accordance with the covenant of God, the God of their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Josiah removed all the detestable idols and practices from all the territories belonging to the people of Israel, and he compelled everyone in Israel to worship and serve the LORD their God. Throughout his reign, the people did not turn away from following the LORD, the God of their ancestors.</span></p>






</body></html>