<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sgju25.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:16d5c453-a5d9-00ca-d6e5-2c757a2c48b1" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 23</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;"> Wail, you ships of Tarshish, for Tyre has been destroyed, leaving no house standing, no harbor to enter. This devastation has been made known to them from the land of Chittim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remain calm, you who dwell on the island; you whom the merchants of Sidon, crossing the sea, have supplied abundantly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The seed of Sihor, the harvest of the river, brought by abundant waters, is her income; and she is a marketplace for the nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be ashamed, O Sidon, for the sea has spoken, even the mighty sea, saying, "I do not labor in childbirth, nor do I bring forth children. I do not raise young men, nor do I nurture young women."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as the news about Egypt brought great distress, so too will the news about Tyre cause them deep anguish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Cross over to Tarshish; wail, you who dwell on the coast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is this your celebrated city, whose origins stretch back to ancient times? Yet now, her own feet will carry her far away to live as a stranger in a distant land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who has devised this plan against Tyre, the renowned and majestic city, whose merchants are like nobles and whose traders are among the most esteemed in the world?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD of hosts has determined this, to tarnish the arrogance of all that is glorious and to disgrace all who are esteemed on the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Flow through your land like a river, O people of Tarshish; your strength has come to an end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He extended his hand over the sea and caused kingdoms to tremble. The LORD has issued a decree against the city of merchants, to demolish its fortified strongholds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he declared, "You will no longer rejoice, O oppressed virgin, daughter of Sidon. Rise up and cross over to Cyprus; even there you will find no rest."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look at the land of the Chaldeans—this nation did not exist until the Assyrian established it for those who live in the desert. They built its towers and raised up its palaces, but he brought it to destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wail, you ships of Tarshish, for your might has been utterly destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen in that day that Tyre will be forgotten for seventy years, corresponding to the lifespan of a single king. After the seventy years have ended, Tyre will sing like a prostitute.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take up a harp, walk through the city, you forgotten woman of pleasure; play beautiful music, sing many songs, so that you may be remembered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen after seventy years have passed that the LORD will take notice of Tyre, and she will return to her trade. She will engage in immoral dealings with all the kingdoms of the world across the face of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her trade and earnings will be dedicated to the LORD as holy. They will not be stored up or hoarded, for her profits will be used to provide for those who serve in the presence of the LORD, ensuring they have enough to eat and durable clothing to wear.</span></p>






</body></html>