<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 33</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sgkpfa.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d54a28e4-4b92-bace-437d-e85c1325fdf5" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 33</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for you, destroyer, though you have not yet been destroyed! How terrible for you, deceiver, though no one has yet deceived you! When you stop destroying, you will be destroyed; when you stop betraying, others will betray you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018282"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, show us your favor; we have earnestly waited for you. Be their strength every morning, and our deliverance in times of distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the sound of the uproar, the people fled; when you rose up, the nations were dispersed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your plunder will be gathered up as swiftly as caterpillars gather; it will be carried away as quickly as locusts swarm and devour.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD is highly exalted, for He resides in the heights above; He has filled Zion with justice and righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wisdom and understanding will bring stability to your days and provide the strength of deliverance; the reverence of the LORD is His most valued treasure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, their mighty warriors will cry out in the streets, and the messengers who once sought peace will weep bitterly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The roads are deserted; travelers have vanished. He has violated the covenant, shown contempt for the cities, and cares nothing for anyone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The earth grieves and grows weak; Lebanon is disgraced and cut down. Sharon has become like a desolate wasteland, and Bashan and Carmel shed their fruit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares, "Now I will arise; now I will be lifted high; now I will exalt myself."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will conceive worthless plans and give birth to futile actions; your own breath, like a consuming fire, will destroy you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people will become like lime that is burned in a fire; like thorns cut down and set ablaze, they will be consumed in the flames.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, you who are distant, to what I have accomplished; and you who are close, recognize my power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wicked among Zion are filled with terror; trembling has seized the hypocrites. Who of us can endure the presence of consuming fire? Who of us can abide in the midst of eternal flames?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who lives with integrity and speaks honestly, who rejects the profit gained from oppression, who refuses to take bribes, who turns away from hearing about violence, and who closes their eyes to avoid looking upon evil—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will live in a secure and elevated place; his refuge will be as strong as a fortress built on solid rock. His food will be provided for him, and his water supply will never fail.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your eyes will see the king in his splendor; you will gaze upon a land that stretches far into the distance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your heart will be filled with dread as you ponder the coming terror. Where is the record-keeper? Where is the tax collector? Where is the one who tallied the defenses of the city?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will no longer encounter a fierce and aggressive nation, a people whose language is too obscure for you to comprehend, whose speech is so foreign and unintelligible that you cannot understand it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Behold Zion, the city of our sacred gatherings. Your eyes will see Jerusalem as a peaceful dwelling, a secure sanctuary that will never be dismantled. Not a single one of its supporting stakes will ever be uprooted, nor will any of its cords be severed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But in that place, the majestic LORD will be for us like a land of wide rivers and flowing streams, where no warship with oars can sail, nor mighty vessel pass through.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD is our judge, the LORD is our lawgiver, the LORD is our king; it is He who will deliver us. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your ropes have come loose; they cannot properly secure the mast, nor can they spread the sail. As a result, the plunder of a great spoil is divided; even the lame take their share of the prey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And those who live there will no longer say, "I am sick"; the people who dwell in that place will have their guilt pardoned.</span></p>






</body></html>