<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sgmhib.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:266d3469-4920-3ba9-edf4-bcb41e632d84" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that time, Hezekiah became gravely ill and was at the point of death. The prophet Isaiah, son of Amoz, came to him and said, "This is what the LORD declares: Put your affairs in order, for you will die and not recover."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he turned his face toward the wall and prayed to the LORD, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I earnestly plead with you, O LORD, please remember how I have lived before you with integrity and a sincere heart, and have done what is good in your sight. And Hezekiah wept bitterly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before Isaiah could leave the middle courtyard, the word of the LORD came to him, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go back and tell Hezekiah, the leader of my people, this message from the LORD, the God of your ancestor David: I have heard your prayer, and I have seen your tears. Listen, I will heal you. On the third day, you will go up to the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will add fifteen years to your life. I will rescue you and this city from the power of the king of Assyria, and I will protect this city for my own sake and for the sake of my servant David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Isaiah said, "Take a lump of figs." They took it and placed it on the boil, and he was healed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah asked Isaiah, "What will be the sign that the LORD will heal me and that I will be able to go up to the house of the LORD on the third day?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Isaiah said, "This will be the sign to you from the LORD, confirming that the LORD will fulfill what He has promised: Should the shadow move forward ten steps, or go back ten steps?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah replied, "It is a simple matter for the shadow to move forward ten steps. No, let the shadow go backward ten steps instead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the prophet Isaiah called out to the LORD, and the LORD caused the shadow to move back ten steps on the sundial of Ahaz, reversing the direction it had already gone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, Berodach-baladan, the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent a letter and a gift to Hezekiah, for he had heard that Hezekiah had been ill.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah listened to them and showed them everything in his royal treasury—the silver, the gold, the spices, the fine oils, all the armory, and all the valuable items stored in his treasuries. There was nothing in his palace or throughout his entire kingdom that Hezekiah did not display to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the prophet Isaiah came to King Hezekiah and asked him, "What did these men say, and where did they come from?" Hezekiah replied, "They have come from a distant land, all the way from Babylon."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he asked, "What have they seen in your palace?" Hezekiah replied, "They have seen everything in my palace. There is nothing among my treasures that I have not shown them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Isaiah said to Hezekiah, "Listen to the word of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, the time is coming when everything in your household, and all that your ancestors have stored up until now, will be taken away to Babylon. Not a single thing will remain, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your own sons, who will be born to you, will be taken away from you, and they will be made eunuchs to serve in the palace of the king of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, "The word of the LORD that you have spoken is good." And he added, "Is it not good, if there will be peace and stability in my days?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Hezekiah, along with all his achievements and how he constructed a pool and a water channel to bring water into the city, are they not recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah died and was buried with his ancestors, and his son Manasseh became king in his place.</span></p>






</body></html>