<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Micah Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sgmmp9.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0e58a58f-1595-d848-9dc2-82011119b4da" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Micah Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the days to come, it will happen that the mountain of the house of the LORD will be firmly established as the highest of the mountains; it will be raised above the hills, and peoples will stream to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many nations will come and say, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will instruct us in his ways, and we will walk in his paths." For instruction will go out from Zion, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will render judgment among many peoples and issue strong rebukes to distant nations. They will transform their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning tools. No nation will raise a sword against another, nor will they train for war anymore.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each person will sit peacefully under their own vine and fig tree, with no one to cause them fear, for the LORD of hosts has declared it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For all people will each follow the name of their own god, but we will walk in the name of the LORD our God forever and always.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, declares the LORD, I will gather those who are limping, and I will bring together those who have been scattered, as well as those whom I have brought low.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will transform those who were weak and limping into a surviving remnant, and those who were driven far away into a mighty nation. The LORD will reign over them on Mount Zion from this time forward, and forevermore.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you, O watchtower of the flock, O fortress of the daughter of Zion, to you it will return—the former dominion, the royal authority. The kingdom will be restored to the daughter of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why do you cry out so loudly? Is there no king among you? Has your counselor perished? For anguish has seized you like a woman in labor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Writhe in anguish and labor to give birth, O daughter of Zion, like a woman in childbirth. For now, you will leave the city and live in the open fields. You will go even to Babylon, but there you will be rescued; there the LORD will redeem you from the power of your enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, many nations have gathered against you, saying, "Let her be defiled, and let our eyes gloat over Zion."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they do not comprehend the thoughts of the LORD, nor do they grasp His purposes; for He will gather them like sheaves to the threshing floor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rise up and thresh, O daughter of Zion, for I will make your strength as unyielding as iron and your resilience as durable as bronze. You will crush many nations, and I will dedicate their wealth to the Lord, their riches to the Sovereign Ruler of all the earth.</span></p>






</body></html>