<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 26</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sgrvp3.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6a06415d-2dcf-a8ad-d3e8-43ac5be2b7f4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 26</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Ziphites went to Saul at Gibeah and said, "Is David not hiding in the hill of Hachilah, which overlooks the wilderness of Jeshimon?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul got up and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, accompanied by three thousand of Israel’s finest soldiers, to search for David in the wilderness of Ziph.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul set up his camp on the hill of Hachilah, which is near Jeshimon, along the road. Meanwhile, David remained in the wilderness, and he became aware that Saul had come after him into the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David then sent out scouts and confirmed that Saul had indeed arrived.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David got up and went to the place where Saul had set up camp. He observed the spot where Saul was lying down, along with Abner, the son of Ner, who was the commander of Saul’s army. Saul was resting in the encampment, and the troops were stationed around him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David responded and said to Ahimelech the Hittite and to Abishai, the son of Zeruiah and brother of Joab, "Who will go down with me to Saul's camp?" And Abishai replied, "I will go down with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David and Abishai approached the camp at night, and there they found Saul lying asleep inside the encampment, with his spear stuck in the ground near his head. Abner and the rest of the troops were lying all around him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Abishai said to David, "God has delivered your enemy into your hand today. Now, please, let me strike him with the spear, pinning him to the ground in one blow. I will not need to strike him a second time."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Abishai, "Do not kill him, for who can raise their hand against the Lord’s anointed and remain innocent?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David continued, "As surely as the LORD lives, the LORD will strike him down; or his time will come and he will die; or he will go down into battle and meet his end."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD forbid that I should raise my hand against the LORD’s anointed. But please, take the spear that is by his head and the jug of water, and let us leave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David took the spear and the jug of water from beside Saul’s head, and they left without anyone noticing, knowing, or waking up. They were all asleep because the LORD had caused a deep sleep to fall upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David crossed over to the opposite side and took his position on the summit of a distant hill, with a considerable distance separating them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David called out to the people and to Abner, the son of Ner, saying, "Will you not respond, Abner?" Then Abner replied, "Who are you, calling out to the king?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Abner, "Are you not a courageous man? Who in Israel can compare to you? Why then have you not guarded your lord the king? For one of the people came to kill the king, your lord."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What you have done is not right. As surely as the LORD lives, you deserve to die because you failed to protect your master, the LORD’s anointed. Now look, here is the king’s spear and the jug of water that was beside his head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul recognized David’s voice and asked, “Is this your voice, my son David?” David replied, “It is my voice, my lord and king.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "Why does my lord pursue his servant like this? What have I done wrong? What evil is in my hands?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I now ask that my lord the king listen to the words of his servant. If the LORD has incited you against me, may He accept an offering to settle the matter. But if it is people who have done this, may they be cursed before the LORD, for they have driven me away today from staying in the inheritance the LORD has given me, telling me, ‘Go and serve other gods.’</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, do not let my blood be spilled on the ground in the presence of the LORD, for the king of Israel has come out to pursue something as insignificant as a flea, like someone chasing a partridge in the mountains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul said, "I have sinned. Come back, my son David, for I will no longer seek to harm you, because today you considered my life precious. Truly, I have acted foolishly and have made a grave mistake."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David replied, "Look, here is the king’s spear! Let one of the young men come over and retrieve it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will repay each person according to their righteousness and faithfulness. Though the LORD placed you in my hands today, I refused to raise my hand against the LORD’s anointed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Now, just as your life was highly valued in my sight today, may my life be highly valued in the sight of the LORD, and may He rescue me from all distress."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul said to David, "May you be blessed, my son David. You will accomplish great things and will surely succeed." So David continued on his journey, and Saul returned to his home.</span></p>






</body></html>