<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sgspff.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a48d53a0-d931-3d55-04c6-9b1ff4dc2320" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses summoned all the people of Israel and said to them, "Listen, Israel, to the laws and decrees that I am proclaiming to you today. Learn them well, and be careful to observe and follow them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD our God established a covenant with us at Horeb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD did not establish this covenant with our ancestors, but with us—with all of us who are alive here today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke with you directly, face to face, on the mountain from the midst of the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I stood as an intermediary between the LORD and you at that time to declare to you the word of the LORD, because you were afraid of the fire and did not go up the mountain. He said,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the place of slavery.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not have any other gods besides me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not make for yourself any carved image or any likeness of anything that is in the heavens above, or on the earth below, or in the waters under the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not bow down to them or worship them, for I, the LORD your God, am a God who demands exclusive devotion. I hold accountable the wrongdoing of the parents, bringing consequences upon their children, even to the third and fourth generation of those who reject me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I will show steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and faithfully observe my commandments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not misuse the name of the LORD your God, for the LORD will not consider anyone guiltless who misuses His name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Observe the Sabbath day by keeping it holy, as the LORD your God has commanded you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For six days, you shall work and accomplish all your tasks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The seventh day is the Sabbath dedicated to the LORD your God. On that day, you must not do any work—neither you, nor your son or daughter, nor your male or female servant, nor your ox, nor your donkey, nor any of your livestock, nor the foreigner residing within your gates. This is so that your male and female servants may rest just as you do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remember that you were once slaves in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God brought you out from there with great power and a strong, outstretched arm. For this reason, the LORD your God has commanded you to observe the Sabbath day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Respect and honor your father and your mother, as the LORD your God has commanded you, so that your life may be long and prosperous in the land that the LORD your God is giving to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not commit murder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not engage in adultery.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not steal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not give false testimony against your neighbor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not desire your neighbor’s wife, nor should you covet your neighbor’s house, his field, his male servant, his female servant, his ox, his donkey, or anything that belongs to your neighbor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke these words to your entire assembly on the mountain from the midst of the fire, the cloud, and the deep darkness, with a mighty voice, and He said nothing more. He then inscribed them on two stone tablets and gave them to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you heard the voice speaking from the midst of the darkness—while the mountain was ablaze with fire—you approached me, all of you, including the leaders of your tribes and your elders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You declared, "The LORD our God has revealed to us His glory and His majesty, and we have heard His voice from the midst of the fire. Today we have witnessed that God speaks with humanity, and yet we remain alive."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why should we risk death now? This immense fire will utterly consume us. If we continue to hear the voice of the LORD our God, we will surely die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For who among all humanity has heard the voice of the living God speaking from the midst of the fire, as we have, and yet survived?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Approach and listen to everything that the LORD our God will say. Then, tell us all that the LORD our God speaks to you, and we will listen and obey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD heard what you said when you spoke to me, and the LORD said to me, "I have heard the words of this people, which they have spoken to you. Everything they have said is right."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If only they had such a heart within them—to revere me and to keep all my commandments always, so that it might go well with them and with their children forever!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and tell them, "Return to your tents."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But as for you, stand here beside me, and I will declare to you all the commands, the statutes, and the ordinances that you are to teach them, so that they may observe them in the land I am giving them to possess.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must be careful to carry out everything that the LORD your God has commanded you. Do not deviate from it, turning neither to the right nor to the left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must follow all the ways that the LORD your God has commanded you, so that you may live, prosper, and enjoy long life in the land that you are about to take possession of.</span></p>






</body></html>