<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 60</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sgxva8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f08939bd-ff35-59ff-eac2-a666c15e87a6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 60</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rise up and shine, for your light has arrived, and the radiant glory of the LORD has dawned upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, darkness will spread over the earth, and deep gloom will envelop the nations. But the LORD will rise over you, and His glory will be revealed upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the nations will be drawn to your light, and kings to the radiance of your dawn.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look around you and see: all are assembling and coming to you. Your sons will return from distant lands, and your daughters will be carried close to your side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you will see and be radiant, and your heart will tremble and swell with joy; for the wealth of the sea will be brought to you, and the resources of the nations will come to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A vast number of camels will cover your land, the dromedaries of Midian and Ephah. All those from Sheba will come, bringing gold and incense, and they will proclaim the praises of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the flocks of Kedar will be gathered for you, and the rams of Nebaioth will serve you. They will be brought as acceptable offerings upon my altar, and I will bring honor to the house of my splendor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who are these that move swiftly like a cloud, and like doves returning to their nests?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, the distant lands will look to me in expectation, and the ships of Tarshish will lead the way, bringing your children from afar, along with their silver and gold, to honor the name of the LORD your God and the Holy One of Israel. For he has bestowed glory upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Foreigners will rebuild your walls, and their kings will serve you. Though I struck you in my anger, I will show you mercy in my favor and restore you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, your gates will always remain open; they will never be closed, day or night, so that the wealth of the nations may be brought to you, and their kings may come in procession.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For any nation or kingdom that refuses to serve you will be destroyed; indeed, those nations will be completely laid waste.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The splendor of Lebanon will come to you—the fir tree, the pine tree, and the cypress together—to adorn the place of my sanctuary, and I will make the place where I dwell magnificent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of those who oppressed you will come humbly before you, and all who once scorned you will bow down at your feet. They will proclaim you as "The City of the LORD," "Zion of the Holy One of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Though you have been abandoned and despised, with no one passing through you, I will make you a lasting splendor, a source of joy for countless generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will also partake of the wealth of the nations and draw sustenance from the abundance of kings. Then you will know that I, the LORD, am your Savior and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instead of bronze, I will bring you gold; instead of iron, I will bring you silver; instead of wood, I will bring you bronze; and instead of stones, I will bring you iron. I will appoint peace as your overseers and righteousness as your taskmasters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will no longer hear of violence in your land, nor of ruin and devastation within your borders. Instead, you will name your walls "Salvation" and your gates "Praise."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will no longer rely on the sun to give you light by day, nor will the moon provide its brightness for you at night. Instead, the LORD Himself will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your radiant glory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your sun will never set again, nor will your moon wane; for the LORD will be your eternal light, and the days of your sorrow will come to an end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your people will all be righteous; they will possess the land forever. They are the branch I have planted, the work of my hands, so that I may be glorified.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A small group will grow into a thousand, and a weak nation will become mighty. I, the LORD, will bring this to pass at the appointed time.</span></p>






</body></html>