<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sgzi6d.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:59090472-1123-a8d2-48c7-0561cef3e4c6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, turn your attention toward the mountains of Israel and proclaim a message of judgment against them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And proclaim, "Mountains of Israel, listen to the word of the Lord GOD! This is what the Lord GOD says to the mountains, the hills, the rivers, and the valleys: Pay attention! I myself will bring a sword against you, and I will demolish your sacred high places."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your altars will be left in ruins, and your carved images will be shattered. I will cause your slain to fall before your idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will place the lifeless bodies of the people of Israel in front of their idols, and I will scatter your bones around your altars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In every place where you live, your cities will be reduced to ruins, and your sacred high places will become deserted. Your altars will be destroyed and left desolate, your idols will be shattered and vanish, your carved images will be cut down, and all your works will be wiped away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And those who are killed will fall among you, and you will come to understand that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet I will preserve a remnant, so that some of you may escape the sword when you are scattered among the nations and dispersed throughout the lands. This remnant will survive, ensuring that not all is lost.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those of you who survive will remember me among the nations where you have been taken as captives. This will happen because I have been deeply grieved by their unfaithful hearts, which have turned away from me, and by their eyes, which lust after their idols. They will come to loathe themselves for all the wickedness and detestable acts they have committed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they will come to understand that I am the LORD, and that I did not speak idly when I declared I would bring this disaster upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: Clap your hands and stomp your feet, and cry out, "How terrible are all the wicked and detestable deeds of the house of Israel!" For they will perish by the sword, by famine, and by plague.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who are far away will perish by disease; those who are nearby will fall by the sword; and those who remain and are trapped in the siege will die by famine. In this way, I will fully unleash my wrath upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you will know that I am the LORD, when their slain lie among their idols surrounding their altars—on every high hill, on all the mountaintops, under every green tree, and under every dense oak, the places where they offered pleasing sacrifices to all their idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will stretch out my hand against them and make the land desolate—indeed, more desolate than the wilderness near Diblath—throughout all their settlements. And they will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>