<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 29</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sh3jcq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9a78862d-2c79-6eb8-83a7-79dc97b5f918" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 29</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what you must do to consecrate them, so they may serve me as priests: Take one young bull and two unblemished rams.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall prepare unleavened bread, unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers spread with oil. These are to be made from fine wheat flour.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall place them in a single basket and bring them in the basket, along with the bull and the two rams.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the tent of meeting and wash them with water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall take the garments and clothe Aaron with the tunic, the robe of the ephod, the ephod itself, and the breastpiece. Then fasten the skillfully woven sash of the ephod around him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall place the turban on his head and set the sacred crown upon the turban.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall take the anointing oil and pour it on his head, anointing him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall bring his sons and clothe them with tunics.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall fasten sashes around them, Aaron and his sons, and place the headpieces on their heads. The priesthood will belong to them as a permanent ordinance. In this way, you shall consecrate Aaron and his sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall bring a bull before the tent of meeting, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the bull.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall slaughter the bull before the LORD at the entrance to the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall take some of the bull’s blood and use your finger to apply it to the horns of the altar. Then pour the rest of the blood at the base of the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall take all the fat that covers the internal organs, the membrane that is over the liver, the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, and offer them up in smoke on the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the flesh of the bull, along with its skin and its dung, you must burn outside the camp in the fire. It is a sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall also take one ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall kill the ram, take its blood, and sprinkle it all around the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall cut the ram into pieces, wash its inner parts and its legs, and place them with its other pieces and its head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall burn the entire ram on the altar. It is a burnt offering to the LORD, a pleasing aroma, a gift presented by fire to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall take the second ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall slaughter the ram, take some of its blood, and apply it to the lobe of Aaron’s right ear, the lobe of his sons’ right ears, the thumb of their right hands, and the big toe of their right feet. Afterward, you shall sprinkle the rest of the blood around the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall take some of the blood that is on the altar, along with some of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it on Aaron, on his garments, on his sons, and on the garments of his sons with him. In this way, he will be consecrated, along with his garments, his sons, and the garments of his sons with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to take from the ram the fat, the fat tail, the fat that covers the internal organs, the lobe of the liver, the two kidneys with the fat on them, and the right thigh, for this is a ram of ordination.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And one loaf of bread, one cake of bread made with oil, and one thin wafer from the basket of unleavened bread that is placed before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall place everything into the hands of Aaron and his sons, and then you shall lift them up as a wave offering before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall take them from their hands and burn them on the altar as a burnt offering, a pleasing aroma before the LORD. It is a fire offering presented to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall take the breast of the ram used for Aaron’s ordination and present it as a wave offering before the LORD. This portion will belong to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to set apart as holy the breast of the wave offering and the shoulder of the heave offering, which were presented and lifted up from the ram of consecration—the portion designated for Aaron and his sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This portion shall belong to Aaron and his sons as a permanent regulation from the people of Israel, for it is a special contribution. It shall be a contribution from the Israelites, taken from their peace offerings, and it is to be presented as their offering to the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sacred garments of Aaron will belong to his descendants after him, so that they may be anointed and consecrated in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The son who succeeds him as priest shall wear these garments for seven days when he enters the tent of meeting to serve in the holy place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall take the ram of ordination and boil its flesh in a sacred place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron and his sons are to eat the meat of the ram and the bread that is in the basket at the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall eat the offerings that were used to make atonement, in order to set them apart and consecrate them. However, no outsider may eat of them, because these offerings are sacred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any portion of the meat from the consecration offering or any of the bread remains until morning, you must burn what is left in the fire. It must not be eaten, because it is sacred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall do this for Aaron and his sons, exactly as I have instructed you: you are to consecrate them for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall offer a bull every day as a sin offering to make atonement. After you have made atonement for the altar, you shall purify it and anoint it to consecrate it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For seven days you shall perform the ritual of atonement for the altar, consecrating it and setting it apart as sacred. It will then become a most holy altar. Anything that touches the altar will also be considered holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here is what you are to offer on the altar: two lambs, each one year old, every day without interruption.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall offer one lamb in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer in the evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For one lamb, you shall offer a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with a quarter of a hin of pressed oil, along with a quarter of a hin of wine as a drink offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall offer the second lamb in the evening, preparing it in the same manner as the morning grain offering and its accompanying drink offering. This will be a pleasing aroma, a fire offering presented to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This will be a perpetual burnt offering for all your generations, to be presented at the entrance of the tent of meeting before the LORD. There I will meet with you and speak to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There I will meet with the people of Israel, and the tabernacle will be made holy by my glorious presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will set apart the tent of meeting and the altar as holy. I will also consecrate Aaron and his sons, dedicating them to serve me in the priesthood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I will live among the people of Israel and will be their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they will come to understand that I am the LORD their God, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, so that I might live among them. I am the LORD their God.</span></p>






</body></html>