<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sh3qkr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2bc42560-06fd-076e-94fa-c803190071d1" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">An angel of the LORD went up from Gilgal to Bochim and said, "I brought you out of Egypt and led you to the land I promised to your ancestors. I declared that I would never break my covenant with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not form any alliances with the people of this land; you are to destroy their altars. Yet you have not obeyed my command. Why have you done this?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I also declared, "I will not drive them out from before you; instead, they will remain as thorns in your sides, and their gods will become a trap for you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the angel of the LORD spoke these words to all the people of Israel, they raised their voices and wept.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They named that place Bochim, which means "weepers," and there they offered sacrifices to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Joshua had dismissed the people, the Israelites each went to their allotted inheritance to take possession of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people remained faithful to the LORD throughout the lifetime of Joshua and during the lifetimes of the elders who outlived him—those who had witnessed all the mighty deeds the LORD had done for Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua, the son of Nun and servant of the LORD, died at the age of one hundred and ten.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They laid him to rest within the boundaries of his inheritance in Timnath-heres, in the hill country of Ephraim, on the northern side of Mount Gaash.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so, that entire generation passed away and was gathered to their ancestors. After them, a new generation arose who did not know the LORD or the great deeds he had done for Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites committed evil in the eyes of the LORD and worshiped the Baals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They abandoned the LORD, the God of their ancestors, who had brought them out of the land of Egypt, and instead turned to other gods—the gods of the surrounding nations. They worshiped these gods and bowed down to them, provoking the LORD to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They abandoned the LORD and began to worship Baal and the Ashtoreths.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD’s anger burned fiercely against Israel, and He handed them over to plunderers who ravaged them. He also gave them into the power of their surrounding enemies, so that they could no longer withstand those who opposed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wherever they went, the hand of the LORD was against them, bringing harm, just as the LORD had declared and as He had sworn to them. As a result, they were in great distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet the LORD appointed leaders who rescued them from the power of those who oppressed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet they refused to listen to their judges and instead turned to worship other gods, bowing down before them. They quickly abandoned the path their ancestors had followed, the way of obeying the LORD's commands, and they did not continue in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the LORD appointed leaders for them, the LORD was with those leaders and rescued the people from the power of their enemies throughout the leader’s lifetime. This was because the LORD was moved to compassion by their groaning under the oppression and cruelty of those who afflicted them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After the judge died, the people turned back and became even more corrupt than their ancestors. They pursued other gods, worshiping and bowing down to them. They refused to abandon their own sinful actions or their stubborn ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD’s anger burned fiercely against Israel, and He declared, "Because this people has violated the covenant I made with their ancestors and has refused to obey My voice..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From now on, I will not drive out any of the nations that remained when Joshua died, leaving them in place before the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is so that through them I may test Israel, to see whether they will follow the way of the LORD and walk in it as their ancestors did, or not.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD allowed those nations to remain, not driving them out quickly; nor did He hand them over to Joshua.</span></p>






</body></html>