<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sh3y5j.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:52f7bcc9-6a83-91b5-7085-d33aeb38d03a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Paul arrived in Derbe and Lystra, where he encountered a disciple named Timothy. Timothy was the son of a Jewish woman who had become a believer, but his father was a Greek.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was highly spoken of by the believers in Lystra and Iconium.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul wanted him to accompany them on their journey, so he took him and had him circumcised because of the Jews in that region, for they all knew that his father was a Greek.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they traveled through the cities, they delivered to them the decisions that had been established by the apostles and elders in Jerusalem, instructing them to observe these decrees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, the churches were strengthened in their faith and grew in numbers each day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After traveling through Phrygia and the region of Galatia, they were prevented by the Holy Spirit from proclaiming the message in Asia.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they arrived in Mysia, they attempted to journey into Bithynia, but the Spirit of God did not permit them to do so.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They traveled past Mysia and went down to Troas.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One night, Paul had a vision: a man from Macedonia stood before him, pleading, "Come over to Macedonia and help us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had seen the vision, we immediately made plans to go to Macedonia, confidently concluding that the Lord was calling us to proclaim the gospel to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, setting sail from Troas, we traveled directly to Samothrace, and the following day we arrived at Neapolis.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From there, we traveled to Philippi, the leading city of that district of Macedonia and a Roman colony. We stayed in that city for several days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the Sabbath day, we left the city and went to a riverside, a place where people typically gathered for prayer. We sat down and began speaking to the women who had come there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a woman named Lydia, a merchant of purple cloth from the city of Thyatira, who worshiped God. She listened to us as we spoke, and the Lord opened her heart to pay close attention to what Paul was saying.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After she and her household were baptized, she urged us, saying, "If you consider me faithful to the Lord, please come to my house and stay there." And she insisted so strongly that we agreed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As we were on our way to pray, we encountered a young woman who was controlled by a spirit that enabled her to predict the future. She earned a great deal of profit for her owners through her fortune-telling.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A certain girl followed Paul and us, shouting, "These men are servants of the Most High God, and they are proclaiming to us the way of salvation!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She continued doing this for many days. But Paul, deeply troubled, turned and said to the spirit, "I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her." And it left her at that very moment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When her owners realized that their opportunity for profit was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the public square to face the authorities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They brought them before the authorities and said, "These men, who are Jews, are causing great disturbance in our city."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they are teaching practices that we, as Romans, are not permitted to accept or follow, as they are contrary to our laws.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The crowd rose up together against them, and the magistrates tore off their own clothes in anger, then ordered that they be beaten.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had severely beaten them, they threw them into prison and instructed the jailer to guard them securely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The jailer, having received this command, immediately took them and placed them in the innermost cell of the prison. He then secured their feet firmly in the stocks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the other prisoners were listening to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Suddenly, a powerful earthquake struck, causing the very foundations of the prison to tremble. At once, all the doors flew open, and the chains binding every prisoner were unfastened.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prison guard, waking from his sleep and seeing the prison doors wide open, drew his sword and was about to take his own life, thinking that the prisoners had escaped.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Paul shouted in a loud voice, saying, "Do not harm yourself, for we are all here!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he called for a light, rushed in, and came trembling before Paul and Silas. He fell down at their feet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He led them out and asked, "Gentlemen, what must I do to be saved?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "Trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved—you and your household."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They proclaimed to him the message of the Lord, as well as to everyone in his household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that very hour of the night, he took them and washed their wounds. Immediately afterward, he and all his household were baptized.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he had brought them into his home, he prepared a meal for them and was filled with joy, for he and his entire household had come to believe in God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When morning came, the city officials sent the officers with this message: "Release those men."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The jailer reported this message to Paul, saying, "The magistrates have sent word to release you. Therefore, you may leave now and go in peace."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Paul responded to them, "They publicly beat us without a trial, even though we are Roman citizens, and threw us into prison. Now they want to send us away secretly? Certainly not! Let them come themselves and escort us out."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The officers reported these words to the magistrates, and when they heard that Paul and Silas were Roman citizens, they were alarmed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They came and pleaded with them, urging them to leave the city and asking them to depart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They left the prison and went to Lydia’s house. After meeting with the believers there, they encouraged them and then departed.</span></p>






</body></html>