<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sh45gd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e839bec0-1ccf-3ec3-7515-ed8cbeda55f0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, inside the tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after the Israelites had left the land of Egypt. He said:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Conduct a census of the entire community of the Israelites, organized by their ancestral families, listing the names of every male individually, head by head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All those in Israel who are twenty years old or older and are capable of going out to war—you and Aaron must count them according to their military divisions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each tribe shall have one man with you, each one being the leader of his ancestral family.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the names of the men who will stand with you: from the tribe of Reuben, Elizur son of Shedeur.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Simeon: Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Judah: Nahshon, the son of Amminadab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Issachar: Nethaneel, the son of Zuar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Zebulun: Eliab, the son of Helon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Joseph: From Ephraim, Elishama son of Ammihud; From Manasseh, Gamaliel son of Pedahzur.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Benjamin: Abidan, the son of Gideoni.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Dan: Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Asher: Pagiel, the son of Ocran.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Gad: Eliasaph, the son of Deuel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Naphtali: Ahira, the son of Enan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These were the distinguished leaders of the community, the chiefs of their ancestral tribes, and the commanders over thousands in Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Aaron gathered these men, each of whom was specifically named.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the first day of the second month, the entire community gathered together. They registered their ancestry according to their families, based on their paternal households, counting the names of those twenty years old and above, one by one.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the LORD had instructed Moses, he conducted a census of the people in the wilderness of Sinai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Reuben, Israel’s firstborn, were recorded by their generations, clans, and ancestral households, listing each man by name, individually, from twenty years old and upward—all who were able to serve in the military.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted from the tribe of Reuben was forty-six thousand five hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Simeon, organized by their generations, clans, and ancestral households, those who were counted by name, individually, every male twenty years old and above—all who were fit to serve in the military—were registered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted from the tribe of Simeon was fifty-nine thousand three hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Gad, organized by their generations, clans, and ancestral households, every male twenty years old and above who was capable of serving in the military was counted by name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted from the tribe of Gad was forty-five thousand six hundred and fifty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Judah, listed by their generations, according to their clans and ancestral households, every male twenty years old and above who was capable of serving in the military was counted by name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted from the tribe of Judah was seventy-four thousand six hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Issachar, organized by their generations, according to their families and ancestral households, counting every individual by name from the age of twenty and older—all who were fit to serve in the military.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted from the tribe of Issachar was fifty-four thousand four hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Zebulun, organized by their generations, families, and ancestral households, every male twenty years old or older who was capable of serving in the military was counted by name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted from the tribe of Zebulun was fifty-seven thousand four hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Joseph, specifically the descendants of Ephraim, their genealogies were recorded according to their clans and ancestral households, listing each person by name. This included all males twenty years old and above who were fit for military service.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted from the tribe of Ephraim was forty thousand five hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Manasseh, according to their generations, their clans, and their ancestral households, every male twenty years old and above who was fit for military service was counted by name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted from the tribe of Manasseh was thirty-two thousand two hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Benjamin, listed by their generations, according to their clans and ancestral households, every male twenty years old and above who was capable of serving in the military was counted by name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted from the tribe of Benjamin was thirty-five thousand four hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Dan, according to their generations, their clans, and their ancestral households, every male twenty years old and above who was fit for military service was counted by name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted from the tribe of Dan was sixty-two thousand seven hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Asher, organized by their generations, clans, and ancestral households, every male twenty years old or older who was capable of serving in the military was counted by name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted from the tribe of Asher was forty-one thousand five hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Naphtali, recorded by their clans and ancestral households, listing every individual by name from the age of twenty and older—all who were fit to serve in the military—this was the count of their generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted from the tribe of Naphtali was fifty-three thousand four hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the ones who were counted, whom Moses and Aaron, along with the leaders of Israel, registered. There were twelve men, each representing the household of his ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Thus, all those who were counted among the Israelites, according to their ancestral families, from twenty years old and above—everyone who was fit to serve in the military of Israel—were registered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of those counted was six hundred three thousand, five hundred and fifty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Levites, according to their ancestral tribe, were not included in this count.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD had said to Moses,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not, however, count the tribe of Levi or include them in the census of the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to assign the Levites to oversee the tabernacle of the covenant, along with all its furnishings and everything that pertains to it. They will carry the tabernacle and all its equipment, serve in its maintenance, and camp around it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the tabernacle is to be moved, the Levites shall dismantle it; and when the tabernacle is to be set up, the Levites shall assemble it. Any unauthorized person who approaches it shall be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites shall set up their tents, each person by their own camp and under their own banner, throughout their entire assembly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites, however, shall camp around the tabernacle of the covenant, so that no divine wrath may come upon the assembly of the Israelites. The Levites are to be responsible for guarding and maintaining the tabernacle of the covenant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites carried out everything exactly as the LORD had commanded Moses; they followed His instructions completely.</span></p>






</body></html>