<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sh66v6.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6169f65c-5181-6ee6-1dcf-3653138f74e2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the reign of David, a severe famine struck the land for three consecutive years. David sought guidance from the LORD, inquiring about the cause of this calamity. The LORD responded, "This famine has come because of Saul and his bloodstained household, for he put the Gibeonites to death."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king summoned the Gibeonites and spoke to them. (Now the Gibeonites were not part of the Israelites but were among the surviving Amorites. The Israelites had made a solemn oath to them, but Saul, in his zeal for the people of Israel and Judah, had sought to kill them.)</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David asked the Gibeonites, "What can I do for you? How can I make amends so that you may bring a blessing upon the LORD's inheritance?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Gibeonites replied to him, "We do not demand silver or gold from Saul or his family, nor do we ask you to put anyone in Israel to death for our sake." David responded, "Whatever you request, I will do for you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied to the king, "The man who oppressed us, plotted against us, and sought to destroy us so that we would no longer remain in any part of Israel's territory."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hand over to us seven of his male descendants, and we will execute them before the LORD in Gibeah of Saul, the place the LORD chose. The king replied, "I will give them to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan and grandson of Saul, because of the solemn vow made before the LORD between David and Jonathan, Saul’s son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king took the two sons of Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah, whom she had borne to Saul—Armoni and Mephibosheth—as well as the five sons of Michal, the daughter of Saul, whom she had raised for Adriel, the son of Barzillai the Meholathite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He handed them over to the Gibeonites, and they executed them by hanging on the hill in the presence of the LORD. All seven of them died together, and they were put to death during the harvest season, at the beginning of the barley harvest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah, took sackcloth and spread it out on the rock for herself. She stayed there from the beginning of the harvest until the rains fell from the sky. During that time, she did not allow the birds of the air to settle on the bodies by day or the wild animals to disturb them by night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David was informed about what Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah and Saul’s concubine, had done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David went and retrieved the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan, his son, from the men of Jabesh-gilead. These men had taken the bones from the public square of Beth-shan, where the Philistines had hung them after they killed Saul on Mount Gilboa.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He retrieved the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan, his son, from that place, and they also collected the bones of those who had been executed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They buried the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan in the territory of Benjamin, in Zelah, in the tomb of Saul’s father Kish. They carried out everything the king had commanded. After this, God responded to their prayers on behalf of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the Philistines once again waged war against Israel. David, accompanied by his servants, went down to engage in battle with the Philistines. However, during the fighting, David grew exhausted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ishbi-benob, one of the descendants of the giants, whose spear weighed three hundred shekels of bronze and who was armed with a new sword, intended to kill David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, came to his aid, struck down the Philistine, and killed him. Then David’s men swore to him, saying, “You must no longer go out with us to battle, so that you do not extinguish the light of Israel.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, another battle took place with the Philistines at Gob. During this battle, Sibbechai the Hushathite killed Saph, who was one of the descendants of the giants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once again, a battle took place at Gob against the Philistines. There, Elhanan, the son of Jaare-oregim from Bethlehem, killed the brother of Goliath the Gittite. The shaft of his spear was as thick as a weaver’s beam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was another battle in Gath, where a man of enormous size was present. He had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot, making a total of twenty-four. He too was descended from the giants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he taunted and challenged Israel, Jonathan, the son of Shimea and nephew of David, killed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These four were descendants of the giant from Gath, and they were killed by David and his soldiers.</span></p>






</body></html>