<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/english_master.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Prologue</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 <meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sh8e90.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f2f52b3a-a06f-f958-247f-c7aa8e05c82f" />
</head>
<body>
<h4 class="MsoToc1 custom-heading"><a id="ref_Toc000000001"><span>Prologue</span></a></h4>

<p class="prophecy-text" lang="en">Discover the "Covenant of Grace" as the central theme of Scripture—the divine thread that weaves seamlessly from Genesis to Revelation, restoring the broken relationship between humanity and God. This contemporary Bible translation, rooted in the King James Version (KJV), harnesses cutting-edge artificial intelligence to present a text that remains faithful to the original languages while offering unparalleled clarity for modern readers.</p>

<p class="prophecy-text" lang="en">From the intricate design of God’s redemptive plan in the Old Testament to the glorious fulfillment of His promises in the New Testament, the "Covenant of Grace" unfolds as the heartbeat of Scripture. This translation is crafted to make this profound message accessible, not to replace the depth of biblical scholarship or the essential guidance of the Holy Spirit, but to illuminate it with renewed clarity and insight.</p>

<p class="prophecy-text" lang="en">By blending the precision of AI technology with a deep appreciation for historical and cultural contexts, this translation invites you to engage more deeply with God’s Word. Experience how Scripture comes alive in its original context, revealing the story of redemption and offering fresh revelations of God’s boundless grace.</p>

<p class="prophecy-text" lang="en">Whether you’re a lifelong student of the Bible or exploring its truths for the first time, this translation offers a unique opportunity to encounter God’s Word in a fresh and transformative way. Through the lens of the enduring "Covenant of Grace," timeless truths are presented with a new perspective, inviting you to experience the richness of God’s love and promises like never before.</p>

<p class="prophecy-text" lang="en"><strong>Key Features:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>AI-Enhanced Clarity: Modern language with original language fidelity.</li>
	<li>KJV Rooted: Grounded in a trusted translation.</li>
	<li>Accessible for All: From beginners to lifelong students.</li>
</ul>

<p class="prophecy-text" lang="en"><strong>Suitable for:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>Personal devotions and study</li>
	<li>Small group Bible studies and Bible learning</li>
	<li>Anyone who desires a deeper understanding of the Bible.</li>
</ul>

<p class="prophecy-text" lang="en"><strong>About This Book:</strong> This book was created using <strong>AI-assisted technology</strong> to enhance readability and accuracy. Every aspect of the text has been carefully reviewed and refined by human editors to ensure faithfulness to the original biblical text and theological integrity.</p>


</body></html>