<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\shc3m3.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9e0a98ee-383f-35d0-1872-326381bffb79" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message from the LORD that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah is in mourning, and its cities are weakened and desolate; they are covered in darkness, bowed down to the ground. The cry of Jerusalem has risen up in anguish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders sent their servants to fetch water; they went to the cisterns but found no water. They returned with their containers empty, filled with shame and dismay, and covered their heads in humiliation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because the ground is cracked and dry, for there had been no rain in the land, the farmers were dismayed and covered their heads in shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even the doe gives birth in the open field and abandons her young, for there is no grass to sustain them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wild donkeys stood on the barren heights, panting for air like jackals; their eyes grew dim because there was no grass to be found.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, even though our sins bear witness against us, act for the sake of your name. Our rebellions are many; we have sinned against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Oh, the hope of Israel, its Savior in times of trouble, why should You be like a stranger in the land, or like a traveler who stops only to stay for the night?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why should you act like someone who is stunned, like a mighty warrior who cannot save? Yet you, O LORD, are among us, and we bear your name. Do not abandon us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says concerning this people: "They have delighted in wandering and have not restrained their steps. Therefore, the LORD does not approve of them. He will now call to mind their guilt and punish their sins."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD said to me, "Do not pray for the good of this people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they fast, I will not listen to their pleas; and when they present burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them. Instead, I will destroy them by the sword, famine, and plague.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said, "Ah, Lord God! Look, the prophets are telling them, 'You will not face the sword, nor will you suffer famine; instead, I will give you lasting peace in this land.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD said to me, "The prophets are prophesying lies in my name. I did not send them, nor did I command them, nor did I speak to them. They are proclaiming to you false visions, worthless divination, and the deceitful imaginations of their own hearts."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says concerning the prophets who prophesy in my name, though I did not send them, and who declare, "Sword and famine will not come to this land": By sword and famine those very prophets will meet their end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people to whom these prophets speak will be thrown into the streets of Jerusalem because of famine and the violence of war. They will have no one to bury them—not themselves, nor their wives, nor their sons, nor their daughters. For I will bring the consequences of their wickedness upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you shall speak this message to them: "Let my eyes pour out tears day and night without ceasing, for the virgin daughter of my people has been struck with a devastating blow, a grievous and crushing wound."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If I go out into the open fields, I see those killed by the sword! And if I enter the city, I see those wasting away from famine! Even the prophet and the priest wander through a land they do not recognize.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have you completely rejected Judah? Do you despise Zion? Why have you struck us so severely that there is no healing for us? We hoped for peace, but no good has come; we waited for a time of healing, but instead, there is only turmoil!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We confess, O LORD, our wrongdoing and the guilt of our ancestors, for we have sinned against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not despise us for the sake of your name; do not dishonor the throne of your glory. Remember, and do not break your covenant with us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is there any among the false gods of the nations that can bring rain? Can the skies themselves send down showers? Is it not you, O LORD our God, who does this? Therefore, we will wait for you, for you are the one who has created all these things.</span></p>






</body></html>