<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezra Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\shdjsg.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:1e0b1e00-084a-771e-f203-69f715397c9c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezra Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events had taken place, the leaders approached me and said, "The people of Israel, including the priests and the Levites, have not kept themselves separate from the neighboring peoples who practice detestable customs. They have followed the ways of the Canaanites, Hittites, Perizzites, Jebusites, Ammonites, Moabites, Egyptians, and Amorites."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they have married the daughters of these foreign peoples, both for themselves and for their sons, causing the holy descendants to intermingle with the peoples of those lands. Indeed, the leaders and officials have been the primary ones responsible for this unfaithfulness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I heard this news, I tore my clothes and my cloak, pulled out the hair from my head and beard, and sat down in stunned silence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all those who were deeply moved by the words of the God of Israel, because of the unfaithfulness of the exiles, gathered around me. I sat there in stunned silence until the time of the evening sacrifice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the time of the evening offering, I rose from my state of deep sorrow. After tearing my clothes and my cloak, I knelt down and lifted my hands in prayer to the LORD my God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "O my God, I am filled with shame and embarrassment to even lift my face toward you, my God, because our sins have piled up over our heads, and our guilt has risen as high as the heavens."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the time of our ancestors until now, we have been deeply guilty of wrongdoing. Because of our sins, we, along with our kings and priests, have been handed over to the power of foreign rulers—subjected to the sword, captivity, plunder, and public disgrace, as is evident today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For a brief time, the LORD our God has shown us grace by allowing a remnant of us to survive and escape. He has given us a secure foothold in His holy place, so that our God might bring light to our eyes and grant us a measure of renewal in the midst of our oppression.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For we were once slaves, yet our God did not abandon us in our captivity. Instead, He showed us mercy in the presence of the kings of Persia, granting us renewal, enabling us to rebuild the house of our God, restore its ruins, and provide protection for us in Judah and Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, O our God, what can we say in light of all this? For we have abandoned your commandments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have instructed us through your servants, the prophets, saying, "The land you are entering to possess is defiled by the impurity of the people living there, who have filled it from one end to the other with their detestable practices and uncleanness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, do not give your daughters in marriage to their sons, nor take their daughters for your sons. Do not seek peace or prosperity through alliances with them, so that you may remain strong and enjoy the abundance of the land, leaving it as an everlasting inheritance for your children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After all that has happened to us because of our wicked actions and our great guilt—since you, our God, have punished us less severely than our sins deserve and have granted us this deliverance—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Should we once more violate your commandments and form alliances with these detestable peoples? Would you not be furious with us to the point of destroying us completely, leaving no survivors or anyone to escape?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, God of Israel, you are righteous: for we are the few who remain, having escaped destruction to this day. Now we stand before you in our guilt, for because of our sins, we cannot stand in your presence.</span></p>






</body></html>