<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\shkp5u.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:89e32bad-86d7-9147-497e-b6f32a6203d4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, he constructed a bronze altar, twenty cubits in length, twenty cubits in width, and ten cubits in height.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also crafted a large cast metal basin, measuring ten cubits from rim to rim, perfectly circular in shape. It stood five cubits high, and its circumference measured thirty cubits around.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Beneath it was a design resembling oxen that encircled it all around, with ten oxen per cubit surrounding the sea completely. The oxen were arranged in two rows, cast as a single piece when the sea itself was cast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The structure rested on twelve oxen, with three facing north, three facing west, three facing south, and three facing east. The basin was placed on top of them, and all their hindquarters were turned inward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The thickness of it was a handbreadth, and its rim was shaped like the rim of a cup, resembling the petals of lilies. It could hold three thousand baths of liquid.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also made ten basins and placed five on the right side and five on the left, for washing. In these basins, they would wash the parts of the animals that were to be offered as burnt sacrifices. However, the large bronze basin, known as the Sea, was reserved for the priests to wash themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011254"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted ten golden lampstands, following their prescribed design, and placed them in the temple—five on the right side and five on the left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011255"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also made ten tables and placed them in the temple, five on the right side and five on the left. Additionally, he made a hundred gold bowls.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011256"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, he constructed the courtyard for the priests and the large outer courtyard. He also made doors for the courtyard and covered them with bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011257"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He placed the basin on the right side, toward the southeast corner of the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011258"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Huram crafted the pots, the shovels, and the bowls. He completed all the work he was commissioned to do for King Solomon for the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011259"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Specifically, the two pillars, the bowl-shaped capitals on top of the pillars, and the latticework that covered the two bowl-shaped capitals atop the pillars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011260"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were four hundred pomegranates on the two wreaths, with two rows of pomegranates on each wreath, designed to cover the two bowl-shaped capitals on top of the pillars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011261"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also constructed stands, and he placed basins on top of the stands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011262"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was one large basin, supported by twelve oxen beneath it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011263"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The pots, shovels, meat forks, and all the utensils were made by Huram, his father, for King Solomon to be used in the house of the Lord. These items were crafted from polished bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011264"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king had them cast in the clay ground of the Jordan Valley, between Succoth and Zeredathah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011265"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon crafted all these items in great quantity, so much so that the total weight of the bronze could not even be determined.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011266"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon crafted all the items intended for use in the house of God, including the golden altar and the tables on which the sacred bread of the Presence was placed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011267"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the lampstands with their lamps, which were to burn in the prescribed manner in front of the inner sanctuary, were made of pure gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs out of gold, using only the purest and finest gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The snuffers, bowls, ladles, and incense burners were made of pure gold. The entrance to the house, including the inner doors leading to the Most Holy Place and the doors of the temple itself, were also overlaid with gold.</span></p>






</body></html>