<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 42</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\shm4o3.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:363121be-860e-1445-a647-06a4a3ea56c7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 42</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he led me out into the outer courtyard, heading toward the north. He brought me to the room that was opposite the separate area and positioned in front of the structure facing north.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The north entrance measured one hundred cubits in length and fifty cubits in width.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Opposite the twenty cubits that belonged to the inner court, and opposite the pavement that was part of the outer court, there were galleries facing each other, arranged in three levels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In front of the chambers was a walkway ten cubits wide, extending inward, with a path one cubit wide. The doors of the chambers faced north.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The upper chambers were narrower in size because the galleries took up more space than the lower and middle levels of the building.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The structure was built in three levels, but unlike the pillars of the surrounding courtyards, these did not have supporting pillars. As a result, the upper levels were set back more than the lower and middle levels, narrowing the building as it rose from the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The outer wall that ran alongside the chambers, facing the outer courtyard at the front of the chambers, was fifty cubits in length.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The chambers located in the outer courtyard measured fifty cubits in length. And behold, the area in front of the temple extended one hundred cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And beneath these chambers was the entrance on the east side, as one enters them from the outer court.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The rooms were built within the thickness of the courtyard wall, facing east, opposite the designated sacred area and opposite the main structure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The path before them resembled the design of the chambers facing the north, matching them in both length and width. All their entrances and exits were arranged according to the same pattern and structure as their doorways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And corresponding to the entrances of the chambers facing south, there was an entrance at the beginning of the passage, directly in front of the wall on the east side, as one enters into them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "The chambers on the north side and the south side, which are in front of the separate area, are holy chambers. There the priests who approach the Lord shall eat the most holy offerings. There they shall place the most holy offerings—the grain offering, the sin offering, and the guilt offering—for the place is holy."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the priests enter the holy place, they must not go out from the sanctuary into the outer courtyard. Instead, they are to leave their sacred garments there, the ones they wear while performing their duties, because these garments are holy. They must then put on different clothes before approaching the areas designated for the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had finished measuring the inner temple, he led me out toward the gate that faces east and measured its perimeter all around.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He measured the eastern side with the measuring rod, five hundred rods in length, using the measuring rod to measure all around.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He measured the north side, which was five hundred reeds in length, using the measuring reed to determine the distance all around.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He measured the southern side, which was five hundred reeds in length, using the measuring rod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He turned toward the west side and measured five hundred reeds using the measuring rod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He measured the area on all four sides: it was surrounded by a wall, five hundred reeds in length and five hundred reeds in width, to create a clear distinction between the sacred space and the common area.</span></p>






</body></html>