<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Hebrews Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\shmp3n.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ea1ca6f0-7e90-461b-8d2b-05e2bf39ec27" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Hebrews Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, we must pay even closer attention to the message we have heard, so that we do not drift away from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if the message delivered through angels was firmly established, and every violation and act of disobedience received a just penalty,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How can we possibly escape judgment if we disregard such a profound salvation? This salvation was first announced by the Lord Himself and was then confirmed to us by those who heard Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God also confirmed their message by bearing witness to it through signs, wonders, various miracles, and gifts of the Holy Spirit, all distributed according to His own will.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For God has not subjected the coming world, about which we are speaking, to the authority of angels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But someone, in a specific passage, declared, saying, "What is humanity, that you are mindful of them? Or the child of humanity, that you care for them?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You made him slightly less than the heavenly beings; you crowned him with glory and honor, and appointed him to rule over the works of your hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have placed all things under his authority, subjecting everything beneath his feet. For when it says that all things are subjected to him, it means that nothing is left outside his control. However, at present, we do not yet see everything fully brought under his dominion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But we see Jesus, who was made for a short time lower than the angels in order to suffer death, now crowned with glory and honor because he endured death for everyone by the grace of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It was fitting for God, for whom and through whom all things exist, in bringing many children to glory, to make the pioneer of their salvation perfect through suffering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Both the one who makes holy and those who are made holy all share the same origin. For this reason, he is not ashamed to call them brothers and sisters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "I will proclaim your name to my brothers and sisters; in the midst of the assembly, I will sing your praises."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, I will place my trust in Him. And again, it is written: "Here I am, and the children God has given me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since, then, the children share in flesh and blood, he himself in the same way took on flesh and blood, so that through his death he might destroy the one who holds the power of death—that is, the devil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And free those who, because of their fear of death, were held in lifelong slavery.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, he did not take on the nature of angels; instead, he took on the lineage of Abraham.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, it was necessary for him to become like his brothers and sisters in every way, so that he might serve as a merciful and faithful high priest in matters relating to God, in order to bring about atonement for the sins of the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because he himself endured suffering when he was tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted.</span></p>






</body></html>