<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nehemiah Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\shmrgj.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:af48be26-53bc-9683-fa02-a02bd1daf8db" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nehemiah Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when Sanballat learned that we were rebuilding the wall, he became furious and deeply offended. He began to ridicule the Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He spoke in the presence of his brothers and the army of Samaria, saying, "What are these weak Jews doing? Will they rebuild their defenses? Will they offer sacrifices? Do they think they can finish in a single day? Can they restore the stones from the piles of burned rubble?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tobiah the Ammonite, who was standing nearby, remarked, "Even if they build something, if a fox were to climb on it, it would surely collapse their stone wall."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, O our God, for we are held in contempt. Turn their insults back upon their own heads, and let them become plunder in a land of exile.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not overlook their wrongdoing, nor erase their sin from your sight; for they have angered you in the presence of those who are rebuilding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So we rebuilt the wall, and the entire structure was connected up to half its height, for the people were fully committed to the work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when Sanballat, Tobiah, the Arabians, the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites learned that the walls of Jerusalem were being rebuilt and that the gaps were being repaired, they became extremely angry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of them plotted together to come and wage war against Jerusalem, intending to cause trouble and obstruct its progress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet we prayed earnestly to our God and appointed guards to watch over us day and night because of their threat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah said, "The strength of those carrying the loads is failing, and there is too much rubble, so we are unable to rebuild the wall."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our enemies said, "They will not know or see what is happening until we come among them, kill them, and put a stop to their work."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Jews who lived nearby came to us, they repeatedly warned us, saying, "No matter where you turn, they will come after you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I stationed people in the lower areas behind the wall and in the elevated positions, arranging them by families, each armed with their swords, spears, and bows.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I stood up and addressed the nobles, the leaders, and the rest of the people, saying, "Do not be afraid of them. Remember the Lord, who is great and awe-inspiring, and fight for your brothers, your sons, your daughters, your wives, and your homes."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When our enemies learned that we were aware of their plans and that God had thwarted their schemes, all of us returned to the wall, each person resuming their work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From that time onward, half of my workers were engaged in the construction work, while the other half were equipped with spears, shields, bows, and armor. The leaders stood behind all the people of Judah, providing support and protection.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The workers who were building the wall, along with those carrying the loads and those loading materials, each worked with one hand while holding a weapon in the other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The builders worked with their swords fastened at their sides as they built. The one who blew the trumpet stood beside me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I addressed the nobles, the officials, and the rest of the people, saying, "The task before us is immense and extensive. We are spread out along the wall, each of us far apart from one another."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wherever you hear the sound of the trumpet, gather there to join us. Our God will fight on our behalf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So we worked diligently on the task, with half of the men holding spears from the break of dawn until the stars came out at night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that same time, I also instructed the people, "Let each person, along with their servants, stay within Jerusalem at night. This way, they can serve as a guard for us during the night and continue their work during the day."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Neither I, nor my brothers, nor my servants, nor the guards who accompanied me—none of us removed our clothing, except when each of us took them off for washing.</span></p>






</body></html>