<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sho1dn.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:60dfb4b5-d5bb-8288-93c9-a274ee27c719" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel addressed all Israel, saying, "Listen, I have carefully considered everything you have said to me and have acted according to your wishes by appointing a king to rule over you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, look, the king leads you; I am old and gray-haired, and my sons are among you. I have guided you from my youth until this very day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here I stand before you now. Bring your accusations against me in the presence of the LORD and His anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Whose donkey have I seized? Whom have I cheated? Whom have I oppressed? From whose hand have I accepted a bribe to close my eyes to wrongdoing? If I have done any of these things, I will make it right and restore what was taken.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied, "You have not cheated us, nor have you mistreated us, nor have you taken anything from anyone by force."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "The LORD is a witness against you, and His anointed one is a witness today, that you have found nothing in my possession." And they replied, "He is witness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel said to the people, "It is the LORD who raised up Moses and Aaron, and who brought your ancestors out of the land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, stand still so that I may present my case before the LORD and remind you of all the righteous deeds the LORD has done for you and your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jacob entered Egypt, and your ancestors cried out to the LORD, the LORD sent Moses and Aaron, who led your ancestors out of Egypt and brought them to settle in this land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they forgot the LORD their God, He handed them over to Sisera, the commander of Hazor’s army, and to the Philistines, and to the king of Moab, and these enemies waged war against them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They called out to the LORD and said, "We have sinned, for we have abandoned the LORD and served the Baals and the Ashtoreths. But now, rescue us from the power of our enemies, and we will serve you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD raised up Jerubbaal, Bedan, Jephthah, and Samuel, and through them He rescued you from the power of your enemies on every side, so that you lived in safety.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you saw that Nahash, the king of the Ammonites, was advancing against you, you said to me, "No! We must have a king to rule over us," even though the LORD your God was already your king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, look at the king you have chosen, the one you asked for! See, the LORD has appointed a king to rule over you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you will revere the LORD, serve Him, obey His voice, and not defy His commands, then both you and the king who rules over you will remain faithful to the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you refuse to listen to the voice of the LORD and instead rebel against His command, then the LORD’s power will turn against you, just as it did against your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, stand firm and witness this extraordinary act that the LORD is about to perform right before your eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Isn’t today the time of the wheat harvest? I will call out to the LORD, and He will send thunder and rain. Then you will realize and understand how great your wickedness is—what you have done in the sight of the LORD by demanding a king for yourselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Samuel cried out to the LORD, and the LORD sent thunder and rain that very day. As a result, all the people were filled with great awe and reverence for the LORD and for Samuel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all the people said to Samuel, "Please pray to the LORD your God on behalf of your servants, so that we may not die. For we have added to all our sins this great wrongdoing by asking for a king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel said to the people, "Do not be afraid. It is true that you have committed all this evil, yet do not turn away from following the LORD. Instead, serve the LORD wholeheartedly."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not turn away, for if you do, you will pursue worthless things that cannot benefit or save you; they are utterly empty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD will not abandon His people, for the sake of His great name, because it has been His will to make you His own people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, as for me, far be it from me to sin against the LORD by failing to pray for you. Instead, I will instruct you in the good and proper way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Revere the LORD alone, and serve Him sincerely with your whole heart. Reflect on the remarkable deeds He has done for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if you persist in acting wickedly, both you and your king will be utterly destroyed.</span></p>






</body></html>