<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\shp0wb.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c0e7ef70-00d7-5288-7fd7-397f2d2206cc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had gathered there to proclaim him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who had fled to Egypt to escape King Solomon, heard the news, he returned from Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sent for him and summoned him. Then Jeroboam and all the people of Israel came and spoke to Rehoboam, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your father imposed a harsh burden on us. Now, lighten the heavy labor and the oppressive yoke your father placed upon us, and we will serve you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to them, "Return to me after three days." Then the people left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Rehoboam sought advice from the elders who had served his father Solomon during his lifetime. He asked them, "What guidance do you offer me on how to respond to this people?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to him, "If you are kind to these people, treat them favorably, and speak to them with gracious words, they will remain your loyal servants forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, he rejected the advice given to him by the elders and instead sought counsel from the young men who had grown up with him and served in his presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "What counsel do you offer so that we may respond to this people, who have spoken to me, saying, 'Lighten the heavy burden that your father placed on us'?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The young men who had grown up with him advised him, saying, "This is how you should respond to the people who have spoken to you, saying, 'Your father made our burden heavy, but you should make it lighter for us.' Tell them this: 'My little finger is thicker than my father’s waist. If my father laid a heavy yoke on you, I will add to your burden. If he disciplined you with whips, I will discipline you with scorpions.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My father imposed a heavy burden on you, but I will make it even heavier. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jeroboam and all the people returned to Rehoboam on the third day, just as the king had instructed, saying, "Come back to me on the third day."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king responded to them harshly, and King Rehoboam rejected the advice of the elders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He responded to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, "My father made your burden heavy, but I will make it even heavier. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king did not listen to the people, for this turn of events was from God, so that the LORD might fulfill the word he had spoken through Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam, the son of Nebat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all Israel saw that the king refused to listen to them, the people responded to the king, saying, "What share do we have in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. To your tents, O Israel! Now, David, take care of your own house." So all Israel returned to their homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, concerning the Israelites who lived in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam ruled as their king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Rehoboam sent Hadoram, who was in charge of the forced labor, but the people of Israel stoned him to death. King Rehoboam, however, quickly mounted his chariot and fled to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to this day, Israel has remained in rebellion against the house of David.</span></p>






</body></html>