<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Zechariah Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\shpgd1.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e7e2482a-bb8d-698a-6f3b-0f56e25c4640" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Zechariah Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the day of the LORD is coming, and the plunder taken from you will be divided among your very midst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will assemble all the nations to wage war against Jerusalem. The city will be captured, the houses plundered, and the women violated. Half of the city’s inhabitants will be taken into exile, but the remaining portion of the people will not be completely destroyed or removed from the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD will go out and wage war against those nations, just as He fought in the day of battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, which lies to the east of Jerusalem. The Mount of Olives will split in two, with a great valley forming as it separates toward the east and the west. Half of the mountain will shift to the north, and the other half will move to the south.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will flee to the valley between the mountains, for the valley will extend as far as Azal. Indeed, you will flee just as you fled from the earthquake in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah. Then the LORD my God will come, and all the holy ones with Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day that the light will not be bright, nor will it be completely dark.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, there will be a unique day known only to the LORD—a day that is neither fully day nor fully night. Yet, when evening comes, there will be light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, fresh, life-giving waters will flow out from Jerusalem—half of them toward the eastern sea and half of them toward the western sea. This flow will continue uninterrupted, both in summer and in winter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the LORD will reign as king over the entire earth. On that day, the LORD will be the only one, and his name will be the only name acknowledged.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire land will be transformed into a plain, stretching from Geba to Rimmon, south of Jerusalem. The city will be raised up and remain settled in its place, from the gate of Benjamin to the location of the first gate, as far as the corner gate, and from the tower of Hananeel to the king’s winepresses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People will live in it, and there will no longer be complete devastation; Jerusalem will be securely inhabited.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This will be the plague with which the LORD will strike all the nations that have waged war against Jerusalem: Their flesh will waste away while they are still standing on their feet, their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongues will decay in their mouths.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day that the LORD will cause a great uproar among them. Each person will seize the hand of their neighbor, and they will turn against one another, raising their hands in conflict.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah will also engage in battle at Jerusalem, and the riches of all the surrounding nations will be gathered there—gold, silver, and clothing in great abundance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The same plague that afflicts people will also strike the horses, mules, camels, donkeys, and all the other animals in these camps.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen that all who remain from every nation that came against Jerusalem will go up year after year to worship the King, the LORD of hosts, and to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen that if any of the families of the earth refuse to come up to Jerusalem to worship the King, the LORD of hosts, then no rain will fall upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if the people of Egypt do not go up and do not come to Jerusalem, even though they have no rain, they will experience the plague with which the Lord will strike the nations that do not come to celebrate the Feast of Tabernacles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This will be the judgment upon Egypt and upon all the nations that do not come up to observe the Feast of Tabernacles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, even the harness bells of the horses will bear the inscription, "HOLINESS TO THE LORD." Furthermore, the cooking pots in the house of the LORD will be as sacred as the bowls used at the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, every pot in Jerusalem and throughout Judah will be set apart as holy to the LORD of hosts. All who come to offer sacrifices will take from them and cook their offerings in these pots. On that day, there will no longer be any trace of the Canaanite in the house of the LORD of hosts.</span></p>






</body></html>