<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Genesis Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\shqays.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:37c3c7dc-37eb-49a8-9182-fc36868de674" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Genesis Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the days when Amraphel was king of Shinar, Arioch was king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer was king of Elam, and Tidal was king of the nations, it happened that...</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These kings waged war against Bera, the king of Sodom; Birsha, the king of Gomorrah; Shinab, the king of Admah; Shemeber, the king of Zeboiim; and the king of Bela, which is also called Zoar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All these forces came together in the Valley of Siddim, which is now the Salt Sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For twelve years they were subject to Chedorlaomer, but in the thirteenth year they rose up in rebellion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fourteenth year, Chedorlaomer and the kings allied with him came and defeated the Rephaim at Ashteroth Karnaim, the Zuzim at Ham, and the Emim in Shaveh Kiriathaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the Horites lived in their mountainous region of Seir, extending as far as El-paran, which lies near the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They turned back and went to En-mishpat, which is Kadesh, and attacked the entire territory of the Amalekites, as well as the Amorites who lived in Hazezon-tamar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah, the king of Admah, the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (which is Zoar) went out and prepared for battle. They engaged in combat against their enemies in the Valley of Siddim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Chedorlaomer, the king of Elam, joined forces with Tidal, the king of various nations, Amraphel, the king of Shinar, and Arioch, the king of Ellasar. These four kings waged war against five others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Valley of Siddim was filled with tar pits, and when the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, they fell into them. Those who survived fled to the mountains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They seized all the possessions of Sodom and Gomorrah, along with all their food supplies, and then departed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They captured Lot, the nephew of Abram, who was living in Sodom, along with his possessions, and then they left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A survivor came and reported this to Abram the Hebrew, who was living near the great trees of Mamre the Amorite. Mamre was the brother of Eshcol and Aner, and they were all allies of Abram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Abram learned that his brother had been taken captive, he gathered his trained servants, those born in his household, numbering three hundred and eighteen, and pursued the captors as far as Dan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He and his servants launched a surprise attack against them during the night, defeating them and pursuing them as far as Hobah, which lies to the north of Damascus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He recovered all the possessions and also brought back his brother Lot, along with his belongings, the women, and the other people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After his victory over Chedorlaomer and the kings who were allied with him, the king of Sodom went out to meet him in the Valley of Shaveh, also known as the King’s Valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Melchizedek, the king of Salem, brought out bread and wine. He was a priest of the Most High God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he blessed him, saying, "May Abram be blessed by the Most High God, Creator of heaven and earth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And may the Most High God be praised, who has handed over your enemies to you. Then he gave him a tenth of everything.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Sodom said to Abram, "Let me have the people, and you may keep the possessions for yourself."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Abram said to the king of Sodom, "I have raised my hand in an oath to the LORD, the Most High God, the Creator and Owner of heaven and earth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will not take even a thread or a sandal strap, nor will I take anything that belongs to you, so that you cannot say, 'I have made Abram wealthy.'</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Except for what the young men have eaten and the share belonging to the men who accompanied me—Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre—let them take their portion.</span></p>






</body></html>