<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nehemiah Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\shxfsd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c743e461-1f53-243d-9058-9cc35d61601c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nehemiah Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of the people settled in Jerusalem, while the rest of the people drew lots to determine who would move there. One out of every ten was chosen to live in Jerusalem, the holy city, while the remaining nine were to reside in other towns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people praised and honored all those who willingly volunteered to settle in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the leaders of the province who lived in Jerusalem. However, in the towns of Judah, each person lived on their own property in their respective cities—this included the people of Israel, the priests, the Levites, the temple servants, and the descendants of Solomon’s servants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In Jerusalem, some of the descendants of Judah and Benjamin settled. Among the descendants of Judah was Athaiah, the son of Uzziah, who was the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalaleel, from the line of Perez.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Maaseiah, the son of Baruch, who was the son of Col-hozeh, who was the son of Hazaiah, who was the son of Adaiah, who was the son of Joiarib, who was the son of Zechariah, who was the son of Shiloni.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the descendants of Perez who lived in Jerusalem numbered four hundred and sixty-eight courageous men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the descendants of Benjamin: Sallu, the son of Meshullam, who was the son of Joed, who was the son of Pedaiah, who was the son of Kolaiah, who was the son of Maaseiah, who was the son of Ithiel, who was the son of Jesaiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After him, Gabbai and Sallai contributed, totaling nine hundred and twenty-eight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joel, the son of Zichri, served as their supervisor, and Judah, the son of Senuah, was second in authority over the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the priests: Jedaiah, son of Joiarib; Jachin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Seraiah, the son of Hilkiah, who was the son of Meshullam, who was the son of Zadok, who was the son of Meraioth, who was the son of Ahitub, served as the overseer of the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And their fellow workers who carried out the duties of the temple numbered eight hundred and twenty-two. Among them was Adaiah, the son of Jeroham, who was the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashur, the son of Malchiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his relatives, who were leaders of their ancestral families, numbered two hundred and forty-two. Among them was Amashai, the son of Azareel, who was the son of Ahasai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And their relatives, who were strong and courageous warriors, numbered one hundred and twenty-eight. Their overseer was Zabdiel, the son of a prominent leader.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Also from the Levites: Shemaiah, the son of Hashub, who was the son of Azrikam, who was the son of Hashabiah, who was the son of Bunni.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shabbethai and Jozabad, who were leaders among the Levites, were entrusted with the responsibility of overseeing the external affairs related to the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mattaniah, the son of Micha, who was the son of Zabdi, who was the son of Asaph, was the leader appointed to initiate the thanksgiving in prayer. Bakbukiah was the second in rank among his fellow worshipers, and Abda, the son of Shammua, who was the son of Galal, who was the son of Jeduthun, also served alongside them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the Levites in the holy city numbered two hundred and eighty-four.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the gatekeepers—Akkub, Talmon, and their fellow workers who were responsible for guarding the gates—numbered one hundred and seventy-two.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining people of Israel, including the priests and the Levites, were settled in all the cities of Judah, each living in their own inherited land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the temple servants lived in Ophel, and Ziha and Gispa were in charge of the temple servants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The supervisor of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzi, the son of Bani, who was the son of Hashabiah, who was the son of Mattaniah, who was the son of Micha. Among the descendants of Asaph, the singers were responsible for overseeing the work related to the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the king had issued a decree concerning them, specifying that a fixed daily portion should be provided for the singers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pethahiah, the son of Meshezabeel, a descendant of Zerah from the tribe of Judah, served as the king’s representative in all matters pertaining to the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the villages and their surrounding fields, some of the descendants of Judah settled in Kirjath-arba and its associated villages, as well as in Dibon and its villages, and in Jekabzeel and its villages.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And in Jeshua, and in Moladah, and in Beth-phelet,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And in Hazar-shual, and in Beer-sheba, and in their surrounding settlements,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At Ziklag, at Mekonah, and in their surrounding villages,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And at En-rimmon, and at Zareah, and at Jarmuth,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zanoah, Adullam, and their surrounding villages, Lachish and its fields, Azekah and its villages—these were their settlements. They lived from Beersheba all the way to the Valley of Hinnom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Benjamin from Geba settled in Michmash, Aija, Bethel, and their surrounding villages.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And at Anathoth, Nob, and Ananiah,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hazor, Ramah, and Gittaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hadid, Zeboim, and Neballat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Lod and Ono, the valley of skilled workers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites were assigned their divisions in the territories of Judah and Benjamin.</span></p>






</body></html>