<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\si0y36.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6eee3384-2e1d-9f01-7968-ff39f386d02f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the third month after the Israelites had left the land of Egypt, on that very day, they arrived in the wilderness of Sinai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They had left Rephidim and arrived at the wilderness of Sinai, where they set up camp in the desert. There, the people of Israel encamped in front of the mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses ascended to meet with God, and the LORD called out to him from the mountain, saying, "This is what you are to say to the house of Jacob and declare to the people of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have witnessed what I did to the Egyptians, and how I carried you as if on eagles’ wings and brought you to myself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, if you truly obey my voice and faithfully keep my covenant, then you will be my treasured possession above all other nations, for the entire earth belongs to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words you are to speak to the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses went and summoned the elders of the people. He then presented to them all the words that the LORD had commanded him to speak.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people responded together, saying, "Everything the LORD has commanded, we will do." Then Moses brought the people's words back to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Listen, I will come to you in a dense cloud so that the people may hear when I speak with you and will trust you forever." Then Moses reported the words of the people to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Go to the people and consecrate them today and tomorrow. Have them wash their clothes."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prepare yourselves by the third day, for on that day the LORD will descend in the presence of all the people on Mount Sinai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must establish boundaries around the mountain to keep the people at a distance, and warn them, saying, “Be careful not to go up the mountain or even touch its edge. Anyone who touches the mountain must be put to death without exception.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one is to touch it, or they will surely be put to death by stoning or by being pierced with arrows. Whether it is an animal or a person, they shall not live. When the trumpet sounds a long blast, they are to approach the mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses descended from the mountain to the people, consecrated them, and they washed their garments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to the people, "Prepare yourselves for the third day. Do not go near your wives."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the third day, as morning dawned, there was thunder and lightning, and a dense cloud covered the mountain. The sound of a trumpet grew louder and louder, causing all the people in the camp to tremble with fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses led the people out of the camp to encounter God, and they took their place at the base of the mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mount Sinai was completely enveloped in smoke because the LORD descended upon it in fire. The smoke rose like the smoke of a furnace, and the entire mountain trembled violently.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the sound of the trumpet grew prolonged and became increasingly louder, Moses spoke, and God responded to him with a voice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD descended upon Mount Sinai, reaching the summit of the mountain. Then the LORD summoned Moses to come up to the top of the mountain, and Moses ascended.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Go down and warn the people not to force their way through to see the LORD, or else many of them will die."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the priests who approach the LORD must consecrate themselves, so that the LORD does not break out against them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to the LORD, "The people cannot come up to Mount Sinai, for you commanded us, saying, 'Set boundaries around the mountain and consecrate it.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to him, "Go down, and then you and Aaron are to come back up. But do not let the priests or the people force their way through to come up to the LORD, or else He may break out against them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Moses went down to the people and spoke to them.</span></p>






</body></html>