<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\si992n.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3d88b7b1-8cf3-7f44-0cc6-aa9c80a05b68" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, Absalom acquired chariots and horses, along with fifty men to run ahead of him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Absalom got up early and positioned himself beside the road leading to the city gate. Whenever someone with a legal dispute came to the king seeking judgment, Absalom would call out to him and ask, “Which city are you from?” The person would reply, “Your servant is from one of the tribes of Israel.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Absalom said to him, "Your case is just and fair, but there is no one appointed by the king to listen to your concerns."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Absalom continued, saying, "If only I were appointed as judge in the land, then anyone with a legal dispute or case could come to me, and I would ensure they received justice!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it came to pass that whenever someone approached him to show him honor, he would reach out his hand, take hold of them, and embrace them with a kiss.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is how Absalom acted toward all the Israelites who came to the king seeking justice: Absalom would win over their hearts, turning their loyalty away from the king and toward himself. In this way, he gained the allegiance of the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After forty years had passed, Absalom said to the king, "Please, allow me to go to Hebron to fulfill the vow I made to the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your servant made a solemn vow when I was staying in Geshur in Syria, saying, "If the LORD truly brings me back to Jerusalem, then I will serve the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to him, "Go in peace." So he got up and went to Hebron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Absalom sent secret agents throughout all the tribes of Israel, instructing them, "As soon as you hear the sound of the trumpet, you are to proclaim, 'Absalom has become king in Hebron!'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Two hundred men from Jerusalem accompanied Absalom, having been invited to join him. They went with pure intentions, unaware of any hidden plans or schemes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Absalom summoned Ahithophel the Gilonite, who had been David’s advisor, from his hometown of Giloh, while he was offering sacrifices. The conspiracy gained strength, as more and more people sided with Absalom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A messenger came to David and reported, "The loyalty of the men of Israel has turned to Absalom."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David addressed all his officials who were with him in Jerusalem, saying, "Get up, and let us flee, or we will not escape from Absalom. Hurry and leave, or he may quickly overtake us, bring disaster upon us, and strike the city with the sword."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king’s officials said to him, “Your servants are prepared to carry out whatever my lord the king commands.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king set out, accompanied by all his household. However, he left behind ten women, who were his concubines, to take care of the palace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king set out, and all the people followed him, stopping at a distant place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of his attendants marched alongside him, along with the Cherethites, the Pelethites, and the Gittites—six hundred men who had followed him from Gath—all proceeding ahead of the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king said to Ittai the Gittite, "Why are you also going with us? Go back and stay with the king, for you are a foreigner and an exile from your homeland."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since you have only recently arrived, should I make you wander around with us today, not knowing where I am going? Return instead, and take your brothers back with you. May kindness and faithfulness be with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ittai replied to the king, saying, "As surely as the LORD lives, and as my lord the king lives, wherever my lord the king may be—whether in life or in death—there your servant will also be."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Ittai, "Go ahead and cross over." So Ittai the Gittite crossed over, along with all his men and all the children who were with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people of the land wept loudly as they crossed over. The king himself also crossed over the Kidron Valley, and all the people continued on, heading toward the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Behold, Zadok and all the Levites who were with him were carrying the ark of the covenant of God. They set down the ark of God, and Abiathar remained there until all the people had finished leaving the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to Zadok, "Take the ark of God back into the city. If I find favor in the sight of the LORD, He will bring me back and allow me to see both it and His dwelling place again."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if he says, "I have no pleasure in you," then here I am—let him do to me whatever seems right in his eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king also said to Zadok the priest, "Are you not a seer? Go back to the city in peace, along with your two sons—Ahimaaz your son and Jonathan the son of Abiathar."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, I will remain in the wilderness plain until I receive word from you to confirm what I should do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008419"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zadok and Abiathar therefore carried the ark of God back to Jerusalem, and they remained there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008420"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David ascended the slope of the Mount of Olives, weeping as he climbed. He covered his head and walked barefoot, and all the people with him also covered their heads. They continued their ascent, weeping as they went.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008421"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Someone informed David, saying, "Ahithophel is among those conspiring with Absalom." David responded, "O LORD, I pray, turn Ahithophel's counsel into foolishness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David reached the summit of the mountain, where he went to worship God, Hushai the Archite came to meet him. Hushai’s robe was torn, and he had dust on his head as a sign of mourning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to him, "If you come with me, you will only be a burden to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you return to the city and say to Absalom, “I will be your servant, O king; just as I served your father in the past, so now I will serve you,” then you can help me by thwarting Ahithophel’s advice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And do you not have Zadok and Abiathar the priests there with you? Therefore, whatever you hear from the king’s house, you must report it to Zadok and Abiathar, the priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, they have with them their two sons: Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok, and Jonathan, the son of Abiathar. Through them, you must send me everything you hear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Hushai, David’s trusted friend, entered the city just as Absalom was arriving in Jerusalem.</span></p>






</body></html>