<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\siam99.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:25cadca4-2b1b-1ae5-d8ed-ce32a50512f8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 23</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul looked intently at the council and said, "Gentlemen and brothers, I have conducted myself with a clear conscience before God up to this very day."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the high priest Ananias ordered those standing near him to strike him on the mouth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Paul said to him, "God will strike you, you hypocrite! For you sit to judge me according to the law, yet you order me to be struck in violation of the law?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who were standing nearby said, "Are you insulting God's high priest?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Paul said, "I did not realize, brothers, that he was the high priest, for it is written, 'You must not speak evil of a leader of your people.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when Paul realized that one group was made up of Sadducees and the other of Pharisees, he called out in the council, “Brothers, I am a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee. It is concerning the hope and the resurrection of the dead that I am being judged.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had spoken these words, a sharp disagreement arose between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the crowd became divided.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Sadducees teach that there is no resurrection, nor do they believe in angels or spirits. However, the Pharisees affirm both the resurrection and the existence of angels and spirits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a loud uproar broke out, and some of the scribes who belonged to the Pharisees' group stood up and argued, saying, "We find no fault in this man. What if a spirit or an angel has spoken to him? Let us not oppose God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When a major conflict broke out, the commander, fearing that Paul might be torn apart by the crowd, ordered the soldiers to go down, seize him by force from among the people, and bring him into the barracks for safety.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The following night, the Lord stood beside him and said, "Take courage, Paul, for just as you have testified about me in Jerusalem, so you must also bear witness in Rome."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When daylight came, some of the Jews formed a conspiracy and made a solemn vow, declaring that they would neither eat nor drink until they had killed Paul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were more than forty men who had formed this plot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They went to the chief priests and the elders and declared, "We have made a solemn vow, invoking a severe curse upon ourselves, that we will not eat anything until we have killed Paul."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, you and the council should inform the commander to bring him down to you tomorrow, as though you intend to examine his case more thoroughly. But before he arrives, we are prepared to kill him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the son of Paul’s sister learned about the ambush they were planning, he went to the fortress and informed Paul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul summoned one of the centurions and said, "Take this young man to the commander, for he has something important to tell him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he took him and brought him to the commander, saying, “Paul, the prisoner, summoned me and asked me to bring this young man to you, as he has something to tell you.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the commander took him by the hand, led him aside to a private place, and asked, "What do you have to tell me?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "The Jewish leaders have agreed to ask you to bring Paul down to the council tomorrow, pretending they wish to examine him more thoroughly."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, do not give in to them, for more than forty men are lying in wait for him. They have bound themselves with an oath not to eat or drink until they have killed him. They are now prepared, waiting for your consent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the commander allowed the young man to leave, instructing him, "Make sure you do not tell anyone that you have revealed these things to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He summoned two centurions and instructed them, "Prepare two hundred soldiers, seventy horsemen, and two hundred spearmen to depart for Caesarea at the third hour of the night."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Arrange for animals to be provided so that they may place Paul on them and bring him safely to Felix the governor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He wrote a letter with the following content:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Claudius Lysias sends his greetings to the most honorable Governor Felix.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This man was seized by the Jews and was about to be killed by them. But when I arrived with soldiers and rescued him, I learned that he was a Roman citizen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when I wanted to understand the reason for which they were accusing him, I brought him before their council.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I found that he was being accused concerning disputes about their own law, but there was no charge against him deserving death or imprisonment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I was informed that the Jews were plotting against the man, I immediately sent for you and also instructed his accusers to present their charges against him before you. Farewell.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The soldiers, following their orders, took Paul and escorted him during the night to Antipatris.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, they allowed the horsemen to accompany him and went back to the fortress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived in Caesarea and handed the letter to the governor, they also brought Paul before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the governor read the letter, he inquired about the province from which Paul came. Upon learning that he was from Cilicia,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"I will listen to your case," he said, "when your accusers have arrived as well." Then he ordered that Paul be kept under guard in Herod’s palace.</span></p>






</body></html>