<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 30</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sid24t.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:26ca7cff-6239-b328-cab9-0c581101f22a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 30</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David and his men arrived at Ziklag on the third day, they found that the Amalekites had raided the southern region, including Ziklag. They had attacked the town, burned it to the ground, and left it in ruins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They had taken the women who were there as captives, but they did not kill anyone, whether young or old. Instead, they carried them away and continued on their journey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David and his men arrived at the city, only to find it burned to the ground by fire. Their wives, sons, and daughters had been taken captive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David and the people who were with him cried out loudly and wept until they were completely exhausted and could weep no more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David’s two wives, Ahinoam from Jezreel and Abigail, who had been the wife of Nabal from Carmel, were taken captive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David was deeply troubled, for the people were talking about stoning him because everyone was bitter in spirit over the loss of their sons and daughters. But David found strength and courage in the LORD his God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, "Please bring the ephod here to me." So Abiathar brought the ephod to David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David sought guidance from the LORD, asking, "Should I pursue this raiding party? Will I catch up with them?" The LORD answered him, "Pursue them, for you will certainly overtake them and without fail recover everything."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David set out with the six hundred men who were with him, and they came to the brook Besor, where those who were too exhausted to continue remained behind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David continued the pursuit with four hundred men, while two hundred remained behind. These men were too exhausted to cross the Besor Brook and stayed there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They discovered an Egyptian man in the field and brought him to David. They gave him bread, and he ate. They also provided him with water to drink.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They gave him a portion of a fig cake and two clusters of raisins. After he had eaten, his strength returned, for he had not eaten any bread or drunk any water for three days and three nights.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David asked him, "Who do you belong to, and where are you from?" The young man replied, "I am an Egyptian, the servant of an Amalekite. My master abandoned me three days ago because I fell ill."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We launched an attack on the southern region of the Cherethites, as well as the territory belonging to Judah and the southern area of Caleb. We set Ziklag on fire and burned it down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David asked him, "Can you lead me to this group?" The man replied, "Swear to me by God that you will not kill me or hand me over to my master, and I will take you to them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he brought him down, he saw that the people were scattered across the land, feasting, drinking, and celebrating because of all the abundant plunder they had taken from the land of the Philistines and the land of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David attacked them from dusk until the evening of the following day, and not a single one of them survived, except for four hundred young men who escaped by riding away on camels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David recovered everything that the Amalekites had taken, and he rescued his two wives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And nothing was missing from them, whether small or great, sons or daughters, plunder, or anything they had taken. David brought everything back.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David captured all the flocks and herds that were being driven ahead of the other livestock and declared, "This is David's plunder."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David approached the two hundred men who had been too exhausted to follow him and had been left behind at the Brook Besor. These men came out to meet David and the people who were with him. As David drew near to them, he greeted them warmly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the wicked and worthless men among those who had followed David responded, saying, "Since they did not go with us, we will not give them any of the plunder we have recovered, except for each man’s wife and children. They may take them and leave."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David said, "You must not do this, my brothers, with what the LORD has given us. He has protected us and handed over to us the forces that came against us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who will listen to you in this matter? For as the share of the one who goes down into battle is, so shall the share of the one who stays with the supplies be—they shall divide equally.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From that day onward, it became a lasting statute and regulation for Israel, which remains in effect to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David arrived at Ziklag, he sent some of the plunder to the elders of Judah, who were his allies, with this message: "Here is a gift for you from the spoils taken from the enemies of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To those who were in Bethel, and to those who were in southern Ramoth, and to those who were in Jattir.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to those who were in Aroer, and to those who were in Siphmoth, and to those who were in Eshtemoa.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to those who were in Rachal, and to those who were in the towns of the Jerahmeelites, and to those who were in the towns of the Kenites,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to those who were in Hormah, and to those who were in Chorashan, and to those who were in Athach.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to those who were in Hebron, and to all the places where David and his men frequently traveled.</span></p>






</body></html>