<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\siddwh.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e8ea293a-05d1-292f-8668-9a5fb6cda417" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahab had seventy sons living in Samaria. Jehu wrote letters and sent them to Samaria, addressing the leaders of Jezreel, the elders, and those who were responsible for raising Ahab’s children. In the letters, he said:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When this letter reaches you, since your master’s sons are with you, and you have chariots, horses, a fortified city, and weapons at your disposal,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Choose the most capable and suitable of your master's sons, place him on his father's throne, and defend your master's household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But they were utterly terrified and said, "Look, even two kings could not stand against him—how then can we possibly stand?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The official in charge of the palace, the governor of the city, the elders, and the guardians of the royal children sent a message to Jehu, saying, "We are your servants, and we will do whatever you command us. We will not appoint anyone as king. Do whatever you consider right."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he wrote a second letter to them, saying, "If you are loyal to me and will obey my command, cut off the heads of your master’s sons and bring them to me at Jezreel by this time tomorrow." Now the king’s seventy sons were under the care of the leading men of the city, who had raised them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the letter arrived, they took the king’s sons and killed seventy of them. They placed their heads in baskets and sent them to Jezreel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A messenger arrived and informed him, saying, "They have brought the heads of the king's sons." He replied, "Place them in two piles at the entrance of the gate until morning."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next morning, he went out and stood before all the people, saying, "You are innocent. It is true that I conspired against my master and killed him. But who is responsible for the deaths of all these others?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Understand this clearly: not a single word that the LORD has spoken concerning the house of Ahab will fail to come to pass. The LORD has fulfilled what He declared through His servant Elijah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jehu killed all who were left of Ahab’s family in Jezreel, along with his chief officials, his close relatives, and his priests, until not a single survivor remained.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He got up and left, traveling to Samaria. While he was on the way, he stopped at the shearing house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehu encountered the relatives of Ahaziah, king of Judah, and asked, "Who are you?" They replied, "We are the relatives of Ahaziah, and we have come to greet the sons of the king and the sons of the queen."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He commanded, "Capture them alive." So they seized them alive and executed them at the pit of the shearing house—forty-two men in total. Not a single one of them was spared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he left that place, he encountered Jehonadab, the son of Rechab, who was coming to meet him. He greeted him and said, "Is your heart loyal to me, as my heart is loyal to yours?" Jehonadab replied, "It is." Then he said, "If it is so, give me your hand." Jehonadab gave him his hand, and he helped him up into his chariot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Come with me and witness my passionate devotion to the LORD." So they had him ride in his chariot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrived in Samaria, he killed all who remained of Ahab's family in Samaria, completely wiping them out, just as the LORD had declared through Elijah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehu assembled all the people and said to them, "Ahab served Baal to some extent, but Jehu will serve him far more."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, summon to me all the prophets of Baal, all his servants, and all his priests; let no one be missing, for I am preparing a great sacrifice to Baal. Whoever fails to come will not live. But Jehu acted with cunning, intending to destroy the worshipers of Baal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehu commanded, "Announce a sacred gathering for Baal." And they made the announcement.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehu sent messengers throughout all Israel, summoning all the worshipers of Baal, so that not a single one failed to come. They entered the temple of Baal, and the temple was completely filled from one end to the other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to the one in charge of the wardrobe, "Bring out garments for all the servants of Baal." So he brought out the garments for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehu, accompanied by Jehonadab the son of Rechab, entered the temple of Baal and addressed the worshippers of Baal, saying, "Examine carefully and ensure that none of the servants of the LORD are here among you—only those who worship Baal."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they entered to present sacrifices and burnt offerings, Jehu stationed eighty men outside and declared, "If any of the men I have placed in your custody escapes, the one who allows him to go free will pay with his own life in place of the fugitive's."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As soon as Jehu had finished presenting the burnt offering, he commanded the guards and the officers, "Go in and kill them all; do not let anyone escape." So they struck them down with the sword, and the guards and officers threw their bodies out. Then they went to the inner sanctuary of the temple of Baal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They removed the idols from the temple of Baal and set them on fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They tore down the statue of Baal and demolished the temple of Baal, turning it into a public latrine, which remains to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, Jehu eradicated the worship of Baal from Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Jehu did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin—that is, the worship of the golden calves that were in Bethel and in Dan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Jehu, "Because you have done well in carrying out what is right in my sight, and have dealt with the house of Ahab in accordance with all that was in my heart, your descendants to the fourth generation will sit on the throne of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Jehu did not make it his priority to wholeheartedly follow the law of the LORD, the God of Israel. He did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam, which had led the people of Israel into sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those days, the LORD began to reduce the territory of Israel. Hazael attacked and defeated them throughout all the borders of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the Jordan River eastward, all the territory of Gilead, belonging to the tribes of Gad, Reuben, and Manasseh, starting from Aroer, which lies beside the Arnon River, and extending through Gilead and Bashan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Jehu’s reign, including all his accomplishments and the extent of his power, are recorded in the historical records of the kings of Israel, are they not?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehu died and was buried in Samaria with his ancestors. His son Jehoahaz succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehu ruled as king over Israel in Samaria for a total of twenty-eight years.</span></p>






</body></html>