<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nehemiah Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\siichi.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7616c62b-be1e-09af-a2c1-cee5027f496c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nehemiah Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is how it happened: When Sanballat, Tobiah, Geshem the Arab, and the rest of our enemies heard that I had rebuilt the wall and that no gaps remained in it—though at that time I had not yet installed the doors in the gates—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sanballat and Geshem sent a message to me, saying, "Come, let us meet together in one of the villages in the plain of Ono." However, they were plotting to harm me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I sent messengers to them with this message: "I am engaged in a significant task and cannot come down. Why should the work stop while I leave it to come to you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet they sent the same message to me four more times, and each time I responded in the same way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Sanballat sent his servant to me for the fifth time in the same manner, carrying an open letter in his hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The text reads as follows: "It has been reported among the nations, and Gashmu also confirms it, that you and the Jews are planning to rebel. This is why you are rebuilding the wall—so that you may become their king, according to these claims."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have also appointed prophets to proclaim your message in Jerusalem, saying, "There is a king in Judah." Now, these words will surely be reported to the king. Therefore, come, and let us discuss this matter together and decide what to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I sent a message to him, saying, "The things you are claiming have not happened; you are inventing them out of your own imagination."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they all sought to intimidate us, saying, "Their hands will grow weak, and the work will not be completed." Therefore, O God, I ask that you strengthen my hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, I went to the house of Shemaiah, the son of Delaiah, the son of Mehetabeel, who was confined to his home. He said to me, "Let us meet together in the house of God, inside the temple, and let us close the doors of the temple, for they are coming to kill you. Indeed, they will come at night to take your life."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I said, "Should someone like me flee? And who, being in my position, would enter the temple to save their own life? I will not go in."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I realized that God had not sent him; instead, he had spoken this prophecy against me because Tobiah and Sanballat had paid him to do so.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, he was hired to intimidate me, so that I would act in fear, commit a sin, and give them grounds for a malicious accusation, enabling them to disgrace me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My God, remember Tobiah and Sanballat for what they have done, and also the prophetess Noadiah and the other prophets who sought to intimidate me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the wall was completed on the twenty-fifth day of the month of Elul, in fifty-two days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all our enemies heard about it, and all the surrounding nations saw what had happened, they were deeply humiliated in their own sight. For they realized that this work had been accomplished by our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012419"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, during that time, the leading officials of Judah sent numerous letters to Tobiah, and Tobiah's letters were delivered to them in return.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012420"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For many in Judah were allied with him, because he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah, the son of Arah; and his son Johanan had married the daughter of Meshullam, the son of Berechiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012421"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They also brought reports of his good deeds before me and conveyed my words to him. However, Tobiah sent letters to intimidate me.</span></p>






</body></html>