<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\silrin.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:41f14fd2-ca9f-9f11-f143-7ad75dc2773c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses was tending the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, who was the priest of Midian. He led the flock to the far side of the wilderness and arrived at the mountain of God, known as Horeb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel of the LORD appeared to him in a blazing flame of fire from within a bush. Moses looked, and there was the bush, engulfed in flames, yet it was not being burned up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said, "I will turn aside now and observe this remarkable sight—why the bush is not being consumed by the fire."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the LORD saw that Moses had turned aside to look, God called to him from within the bush, saying, "Moses, Moses!" And Moses replied, "Here I am."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "Do not come any closer. Remove your sandals from your feet, for the ground on which you are standing is sacred."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, He said, "I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob." At this, Moses covered his face, for he was afraid to look directly at God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said, "I have indeed seen the suffering of my people in Egypt, and I have heard their cries because of their oppressors. I am fully aware of their pain and distress."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have come down to rescue them from the power of the Egyptians and to bring them out of that land to a good and spacious land, a land abundant with milk and honey—the territory of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, listen carefully: the outcry of the Israelites has reached me, and I have witnessed firsthand the harsh oppression the Egyptians are inflicting upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Now, go, and I will send you to Pharaoh so that you may lead my people, the Israelites, out of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to God, “Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and lead the Israelites out of Egypt?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said, "I will surely be with you, and this will be the sign to you that I have sent you: When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you will worship God on this mountain."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to God, "Listen, when I go to the Israelites and tell them, 'The God of your ancestors has sent me to you,' and they ask me, 'What is His name?'—what should I say to them?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And God said to Moses, "I AM WHO I AM." Then He said, "This is what you are to say to the Israelites: 'I AM has sent me to you.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God also said to Moses, "This is what you are to say to the Israelites: 'The LORD, the God of your ancestors—the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob—has sent me to you.' This is my name forever, and this is how I am to be remembered throughout all generations."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and assemble the elders of Israel, and tell them, "The LORD, the God of your ancestors—the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob—has appeared to me and said, 'I have indeed taken notice of you and have seen what has been done to you in Egypt.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have declared that I will deliver you from the suffering of Egypt and bring you to the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites—a land abundant and rich, flowing with milk and honey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will listen to your voice, and you, along with the elders of Israel, shall go to the king of Egypt and say to him, "The LORD, the God of the Hebrews, has appeared to us. Now, we ask you, let us go on a three-day journey into the wilderness so that we may offer sacrifices to the LORD our God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am certain that the king of Egypt will not allow you to leave, not even by the use of great power or force.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will extend my power and strike Egypt with all the miraculous acts I will perform among them. After that, Pharaoh will release you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause the Egyptians to look favorably upon this people, and when you leave, you will not depart empty-handed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But every woman is to ask her neighbor and any woman living in her household for articles of silver and gold, as well as clothing. You will place these on your sons and daughters, and in this way, you will take the wealth of the Egyptians.</span></p>






</body></html>