<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Amos Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\simzrq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ebc6a6e1-5cff-fc3a-6320-11768a8e2622" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Amos Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I saw the Lord standing by the altar, and He said, "Strike the top of the doorway so that the thresholds tremble. Shatter them all, breaking them at the head. I will kill the last of them with the sword; not one who flees will escape, and not one who tries to get away will be saved."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if they dig down to the realm of the dead, my hand will reach them and pull them out; even if they ascend to the heavens, I will bring them down from there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if they try to hide on the summit of Mount Carmel, I will search for them and bring them out from there. And if they conceal themselves from my sight in the depths of the sea, I will command the serpent to strike them there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if they are taken captive by their enemies, I will command the sword to pursue them, and it will strike them down. I will fix my gaze upon them, not for their benefit, but to bring them harm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord GOD Almighty is the one who touches the land, and it will melt away. All who live there will mourn, and the land will rise up like a surging flood, only to be overwhelmed and swept away, as by the floodwaters of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It is He who builds His lofty chambers in the heavens and establishes His vaulted dome over the earth; He who summons the waters of the sea and pours them out upon the surface of the earth—the LORD is His name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are you not like the descendants of the Cushites to me, O people of Israel? declares the LORD. Did I not bring Israel up from the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Arameans from Kir?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the eyes of the Lord GOD are fixed upon the sinful kingdom, and I will annihilate it from the face of the earth. Yet, I will not completely destroy the house of Jacob, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for I am about to issue a command: I will sift the house of Israel among all the nations, just as grain is sifted in a sieve. Yet not even the smallest grain will fall to the ground and be lost.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All those among my people who persist in sin will perish by the sword—those who arrogantly declare, "Disaster will not overtake us or confront us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, I will restore the fallen dwelling of David and repair its broken walls. I will rebuild its ruins and restore it to its former glory, as it was in days gone by.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that they may take possession of what remains of Edom and all the nations that bear my name, declares the LORD, who will accomplish this.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, the time is coming, declares the LORD, when the plowman will work right behind the reaper, and the grape-treader will follow closely after the one sowing seed. The mountains will flow with sweet wine, and every hill will dissolve with abundance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will restore the fortunes of my people Israel, and they will rebuild the ruined cities and settle in them. They will plant vineyards and drink their wine; they will cultivate gardens and enjoy their fruit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will establish them firmly in their own land, and they will never again be uprooted from the land I have given them, declares the LORD your God.</span></p>






</body></html>