<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I John Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\siro7e.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:df10c1b7-2b30-a468-e404-5e71238a2f25" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I John Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My dear children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have someone who pleads our case before the Father—Jesus Christ, the Righteous One.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, and not only for ours but also for the sins of the entire world.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By this we can be certain that we truly know Him: if we obey His commandments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever claims, "I know him," but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth has no place in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But whoever keeps his word, truly in that person the love of God is brought to its full expression. This is how we know that we are united with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever claims to remain in him must also live in the same way that he lived.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Brothers and sisters, I am not writing a new commandment to you, but an old one that you have had from the very beginning. This old commandment is the message you have heard from the start.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, I am writing to you a new commandment, which is true in Him and in you: for the darkness is fading away, and the true light is already shining.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever claims to live in the light but harbors hatred toward their brother or sister is still walking in darkness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who loves their brother or sister remains in the light, and there is no cause for stumbling in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But whoever harbors hatred toward their brother is living in darkness, and they walk in that darkness, unaware of where they are going, because the darkness has clouded their vision.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am writing to you, dear children, because your sins have been forgiven on account of His name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am writing to you, fathers, because you have come to know Him who has existed from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I am writing to you, little children, because you have come to know the Father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have written to you, fathers, because you have known Him who has existed from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, the word of God remains in you, and you have overcome the evil one.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not set your affection on the world or the things it offers. For if anyone is devoted to the world, the love of the Father is not present in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Everything in the world—the desires of the flesh, the cravings of the eyes, and the arrogance of material possessions—does not come from the Father but originates from the world itself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The world and its desires are fading away, but the one who carries out the will of God endures forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Dear children, this is the final hour. As you have heard that the antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have appeared. This is how we know that it is the final hour.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They left our community, but they were never truly part of us; for if they had belonged to us, they would have remained with us. However, their departure made it clear that not all of them were genuinely part of our fellowship.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you have received an anointing from the Holy One, and you understand all things.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am writing to you not because you are unaware of the truth, but because you do know it, and because no falsehood can come from the truth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who is a liar except the one who denies that Jesus is the Messiah? Such a person is the antichrist—the one who rejects both the Father and the Son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever rejects the Son does not have the Father; but whoever acknowledges the Son also has the Father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let what you have heard from the beginning remain firmly in you. If what you heard from the beginning stays rooted in your hearts, you will also remain united with the Son and with the Father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the assurance He has given to us: the promise of eternal life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have written these things to you regarding those who are trying to lead you astray.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The anointing you have received from Him remains in you, and you do not need anyone to teach you. For the same anointing teaches you about all things, and it is true, not a lie. Just as it has taught you, remain in Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, dear children, remain united with him, so that when he is revealed, we may have bold assurance and not feel ashamed before him at his coming.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you understand that He is righteous, you also understand that everyone who practices righteousness has been born of Him.</span></p>






</body></html>