<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Zechariah Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\siu5r0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f5698465-d6cc-9a7c-2c33-5f996dc2ec63" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Zechariah Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, a fountain will be opened for the house of David and for the people of Jerusalem, to cleanse them from sin and impurity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord of Hosts declares: "On that day, I will remove the names of the idols from the land, and they will no longer be remembered. I will also banish the false prophets and the unclean spirit from the land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: If anyone continues to prophesy falsely, their own father and mother, who brought them into the world, will say to them, "You must not live, because you have spoken lies in the name of the LORD." And when that person prophesies, their father and mother, who gave them life, will pierce them through.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day that every prophet will be ashamed of their visions when they prophesy. They will no longer wear rough garments to deceive others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he will respond, "I am not a prophet; I am a farmer, for I have been trained to care for livestock since my youth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And someone will ask him, “What are these wounds on your hands?” He will reply, “These are the wounds I received in the house of those who were close to me.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Arise, O sword, against my shepherd, against the man who is my close companion," declares the LORD of hosts. "Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered; then I will turn my hand against the vulnerable ones." </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "Throughout the entire land, two-thirds will be cut off and perish, but one-third will remain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring a third of them through the fire, refining them as silver is refined and testing them as gold is tested. They will call on my name, and I will answer them. I will declare, "They are my people," and they will say, "The LORD is our God."</span></p>






</body></html>