<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ecclesiastes Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sj34uw.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c593b668-8c1f-3361-c60e-f4c36bfd8b8f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ecclesiastes Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After reflecting deeply on these matters, I sought to explain this truth: the righteous and the wise, along with their deeds, are under God’s care. Yet no one can fully understand whether they will experience love or hardship based solely on what they see in life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The same outcomes happen to everyone: both the righteous and the wicked face the same fate; the good and the pure, as well as the impure; those who offer sacrifices and those who do not. The one who does good is no different from the sinner, and the one who makes an oath is like the one who avoids taking one.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is a grievous reality among all that occurs under the sun: the same fate comes to everyone. Moreover, the hearts of human beings are filled with evil, and madness resides in their hearts throughout their lives. Afterward, they join the dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For whoever is connected to the living has hope: even a living dog is better than a dead lion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The living are aware that they will die, but the dead know nothing at all. They no longer have any reward, for even the memory of them has faded away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their love, their hatred, and their jealousy have all come to an end. They no longer have any share in anything that happens under the sun.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go on your way, eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a glad heart, for God has already approved your deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Always keep your clothing clean and pure, and never let your head be without fragrant oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Enjoy life with the wife you love, throughout all the fleeting days of your life that God has given you under the sun—for these fleeting days are your portion. This is your reward in life, and in the work you do under the sun.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whatever task you find to do, do it with all your strength; for in the grave, where you are going, there is no work, no planning, no knowledge, and no wisdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I observed again, and saw in this world that the race is not always won by the swift, nor the battle by the strong, nor does food always go to the wise, nor wealth to the intelligent, nor favor to the skilled; but time and unforeseen events affect them all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For no one knows their appointed time: just as fish are caught in a deadly net, and birds are trapped in a snare, so too are people ensnared in a time of calamity when it suddenly overtakes them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have also observed this wisdom under the sun, and it appeared significant to me:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a small town with only a few people living in it. A powerful king came and attacked it, laying siege to it and constructing massive siegeworks around it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the city, there was a poor but wise man, and through his wisdom, he saved the city. Yet afterward, no one remembered that same poor man.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said, "Wisdom is more valuable than strength; yet the wisdom of the poor is often disregarded, and their words go unheeded."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The words of the wise are heard more clearly in calm reflection than the shouts of a ruler who governs among fools.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wisdom is more valuable than weapons of war, but a single sinner can undo a great deal of good.</span></p>






</body></html>