<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Thessalonians Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sj5kh9.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4c6cedc3-23d9-b6a4-9187-156b0f2f626f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Thessalonians Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My fellow believers, you yourselves know that our visit to you was not without purpose or effectiveness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even though we had previously endured suffering and were treated shamefully, as you know, in Philippi, we found courage in our God to proclaim to you the gospel of God with great determination and effort.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our appeal to you was not based on deception, nor was it motivated by impure intentions, nor did we use cunning or trickery.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, since God has deemed us worthy to be entrusted with the gospel, we speak accordingly—not to please people, but to please God, who examines the depths of our hearts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We never used flattering speech, as you well know, nor did we act with hidden motives of greed—God is our witness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We did not seek praise or honor from people—not from you, nor from anyone else—even though, as Christ’s apostles, we could have made demands on you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We treated you with gentleness and care, just as a nurturing mother tenderly looks after her own children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because we deeply care for you, we were eager to share with you not only the gospel of God but also our very lives, because you had become so dear to us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You surely remember, brothers and sisters, our hard work and toil. We labored night and day so that we would not be a burden to any of you while we proclaimed to you the gospel of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are witnesses, and so is God, of how devoutly, righteously, and irreproachably we conducted ourselves among you who believe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As you are aware, we encouraged, comforted, and urged each one of you, just as a father cares for his own children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Live in a manner that reflects the worthiness of God, who has called you to share in his kingdom and glory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this reason, we also continually give thanks to God, because when you received the message of God that you heard from us, you welcomed it not as a human word, but as it truly is—the word of God, which is actively at work in you who believe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you, brothers and sisters, became imitators of the churches of God that are in Judea and belong to Christ Jesus. You, too, have endured suffering at the hands of your own people, just as they have suffered from the Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are the ones who killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and they have persecuted us as well. They do not please God and are hostile to all people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are preventing us from speaking to the Gentiles so that they might be saved, thereby continually adding to the full measure of their sins. But God’s wrath has already come upon them to the fullest extent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But we, brothers and sisters, though we were separated from you for a short time in person—not in heart—made every effort with deep longing to see you face to face.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, we intended to come to you—indeed, I, Paul, tried more than once—but Satan prevented us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What is our hope, our joy, or the crown we take pride in? Is it not you yourselves, standing before our Lord Jesus Christ when he returns?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are our source of pride and joy.</span></p>






</body></html>