<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sj83hj.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:78247561-6a82-9c76-2910-926af91938bc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines captured the ark of God and carried it from Ebenezer to Ashdod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Philistines captured the ark of God, they carried it into the temple of Dagon and placed it beside the statue of Dagon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people of Ashdod got up early the next morning, they found that Dagon had fallen face down on the ground in front of the ark of the LORD. So they picked Dagon up and put him back in his place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they got up early the next morning, they found that Dagon had fallen face down on the ground before the ark of the LORD. His head and both of his hands had been cut off and were lying on the threshold, leaving only the torso of Dagon in place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of this, neither the priests of Dagon nor anyone who enters Dagon’s temple in Ashdod steps on the threshold of Dagon, even to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Lord's power came strongly against the people of Ashdod, bringing devastation upon them. He afflicted them with painful tumors, striking both Ashdod and its surrounding territories.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people of Ashdod saw what had happened, they said, "The ark of the God of Israel must not remain with us, because His hand has come down heavily on us and on Dagon, our god."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they sent messengers and gathered all the rulers of the Philistines together, and they asked, “What should we do with the ark of the God of Israel?” The rulers replied, “Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken to Gath.” So they moved the ark of the God of Israel there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had carried the ark around, the hand of the LORD came against the city, bringing about a severe and devastating judgment. He struck down the people of the city, both the lowly and the prominent, afflicting them with painful tumors in their private areas.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. When the ark of God arrived in Ekron, the people of Ekron cried out, saying, “They have brought the ark of the God of Israel to us, to kill us and our people!”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they sent messengers and assembled all the rulers of the Philistines, saying, "Send the ark of the God of Israel back to its rightful place, so that it does not kill us and our people." For a devastating plague had spread throughout the entire city, and the hand of God was pressing heavily upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men who did not die were afflicted with painful tumors, and the outcry of the city rose up to the heavens.</span></p>






</body></html>