<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nehemiah Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sjcrp9.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8c0dcbe5-c4a7-4c4c-1594-c4fd5fa6a90d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nehemiah Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the people, along with their wives, raised a loud and bitter outcry against their fellow Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For there were those who said, "We, along with our sons and daughters, are numerous. Therefore, we must secure grain for them so that we may eat and survive."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some people also said, "We have had to mortgage our fields, vineyards, and homes to buy grain because of the famine."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were also those who said, "We have had to borrow money to pay the king's tax, using our fields and vineyards as collateral."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, our condition is no different from that of our fellow Israelites—our bodies are like theirs, and our children are like theirs. Yet, we are forced to subject our sons and daughters to servitude. Some of our daughters have already been enslaved, and we are powerless to free them because others now possess our fields and vineyards.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I became extremely angry when I heard their outcry and these words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After careful consideration, I confronted the nobles and officials, saying to them, "Each of you is charging interest from your own fellow Israelites." Then I called a large public assembly to address this issue.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I said to them, "We have done what we could to redeem our fellow Jews who were sold to foreigners. Will you now sell your own brothers and sisters? Should they be sold to us?" They remained silent and had no response.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also said, "What you are doing is not right. Shouldn’t you live in reverence for our God, especially to avoid giving our enemies, the nations around us, reason to mock us?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, along with my brothers and my servants, have the authority to demand money and grain from them. However, I urge you, let us stop this practice of charging interest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I urge you, even today, to return to them their lands, their vineyards, their olive groves, and their houses, as well as the hundredth part of the money, grain, wine, and oil that you have been demanding from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they said, "We will return what we have taken and will demand nothing more from them. We will do exactly as you have said." So I summoned the priests and made them swear an oath to fulfill this promise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also shook out the fold of my robe and declared, "In the same way, may God shake out from his home and his livelihood every person who fails to keep this promise. May they be shaken out and left empty, just as I have shaken out this robe." The whole assembly responded, "Amen," and they praised the LORD. Then the people faithfully carried out what they had promised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, from the time I was appointed as their governor in the land of Judah, starting in the twentieth year of King Artaxerxes’ reign until the thirty-second year—a total of twelve years—neither I nor my relatives partook of the governor’s allotted provisions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the previous governors who came before me placed heavy burdens on the people, demanding from them bread, wine, and forty shekels of silver. Even their servants exercised authority over the people. But I did not act in this way, because I feared God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, I remained steadfast in the work of rebuilding this wall, and we did not purchase any land. All my servants were gathered there to contribute to the work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, there were one hundred and fifty Jews and officials who dined at my table, in addition to those who came to us from the surrounding nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The daily provision prepared for me included one ox and six select sheep, as well as poultry. Additionally, every ten days, an ample supply of various wines was provided. Yet, despite all this, I did not demand the governor’s allotted food allowance, because the burden on the people was already heavy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remember me, my God, for good, in light of all that I have done for this people.</span></p>






</body></html>