<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sjgxfi.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a221baaf-93b5-7779-e83a-6438ce47ce88" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon resolved to construct a temple dedicated to the name of the LORD, as well as a royal palace for his own kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon assigned seventy thousand men to carry loads, eighty thousand to cut stone in the mountains, and three thousand six hundred to supervise them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon sent a message to King Huram of Tyre, saying, "Just as you dealt kindly with my father David by sending him cedar logs to build a house for him to live in, so now deal with me in the same way."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, I am building a house for the name of the LORD my God, to dedicate it to Him. It will be a place to burn fragrant incense before Him, to display the bread of the Presence continually, and to offer burnt offerings every morning and evening, as well as on the Sabbath, the new moons, and the appointed festivals of the LORD our God. This is a permanent ordinance for Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The house that I am building is magnificent, for our God is greater than all other gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But who is capable of building a house for Him, when even the highest heavens cannot contain Him? Who am I, then, that I should attempt to build Him a house, except to offer sacrifices before Him?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, send me now a skilled craftsman who is expert in working with gold, silver, bronze, and iron, as well as in weaving purple, crimson, and blue fabrics. He should also be proficient in engraving, working alongside the skilled artisans who are with me in Judah and Jerusalem, whom my father David appointed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Please also send me cedar, fir, and algum wood from Lebanon, for I am aware that your servants are skilled in cutting timber there. My servants will work alongside yours.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Provide me with an ample supply of timber, for the house I intend to build will be exceedingly magnificent and vast."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will provide your servants, the lumberjacks who cut timber, with twenty thousand measures of ground wheat, twenty thousand measures of barley, twenty thousand baths of wine, and twenty thousand baths of olive oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Huram, the king of Tyre, replied in a written message that he sent to Solomon: "Because the LORD loves His people, He has made you their king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Huram also declared, "May the LORD, the God of Israel, who created heaven and earth, be praised! He has given King David a wise son, endowed with insight and understanding, to build a temple for the LORD and a royal palace for his kingdom."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now I have sent a skilled craftsman, gifted with great understanding, from Huram, my father’s associate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The son of a woman from the tribe of Dan, whose father was a man from Tyre, is highly skilled in working with gold, silver, bronze, iron, stone, and wood, as well as in crafting with purple, blue, and fine linen, and crimson fabrics. He is also expert in engraving of all kinds and can devise any intricate design that is given to him. He will work alongside your skilled craftsmen and those of my lord David, your father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, concerning the wheat, the barley, the oil, and the wine that my lord has mentioned, let him send these provisions to his servants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We will cut timber from Lebanon, as much as you require, and transport it to you by sea on rafts to Joppa. From there, you can take it up to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon conducted a census of all the foreigners residing in the land of Israel, following the method his father David had used to count them. The total number was found to be 153,600.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He appointed seventy thousand of them to carry burdens, eighty thousand to cut stone in the mountains, and three thousand six hundred overseers to direct the people in their work.</span></p>






</body></html>