<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Esther Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sjj8ky.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:273f0cb7-e82d-45bd-7086-76e5fbdf1e34" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Esther Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, when King Ahasuerus's anger had subsided, he thought about Vashti, recalling what she had done and the decree that had been issued against her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king's attendants who served him suggested, "Let beautiful young virgins be sought for the king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king should appoint officials in every province of his kingdom to gather all the beautiful young virgins and bring them to the palace in Susa, to the women’s quarters, under the supervision of Hegai, the king’s eunuch who is in charge of the women. They should be provided with everything they need for their purification and preparation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let the young woman who pleases the king become queen in place of Vashti. The king approved of this suggestion, and he acted accordingly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the royal city of Shushan, there lived a Jewish man named Mordecai. He was the son of Jair, grandson of Shimei, and great-grandson of Kish, from the tribe of Benjamin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This refers to those who were taken into exile from Jerusalem during the captivity that occurred when Jeconiah, king of Judah, was deported by Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mordecai raised Hadassah, also known as Esther, the daughter of his uncle, because she had no father or mother. The young woman was lovely and beautiful, and after her parents died, Mordecai took her as his own daughter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So it happened that when the king’s order and decree were proclaimed, and many young women were gathered in the citadel of Susa under the care of Hegai, Esther was also taken to the king’s palace and placed under the supervision of Hegai, who was in charge of the women.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The young woman found favor in his eyes and received his kindness. He quickly provided her with the necessary items for her purification, along with the provisions that were due to her. He also assigned seven suitable young women from the king’s household to attend to her. He then moved her and her attendants to the best quarters in the women’s residence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Esther had not revealed her nationality or her family background, for Mordecai had instructed her not to disclose it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every day, Mordecai would walk near the courtyard of the women’s quarters to inquire about Esther’s well-being and to learn what was happening to her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When it was each young woman’s turn to go before King Ahasuerus, she would do so after completing the customary twelve-month preparation period for the women. This time was set aside for their purification: six months were spent using oil of myrrh, and another six months with fragrant perfumes and other treatments to prepare and cleanse them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then each young woman would go to the king, and whatever she requested was provided to her as she went from the women’s quarters to the king’s palace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the evening, she went, and the next day she returned to the second house of the women, under the supervision of Shaashgaz, the king’s eunuch who was in charge of the concubines. She would not go to the king again unless he was pleased with her and specifically summoned her by name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When it was Esther’s turn to go before the king—Esther, the daughter of Abihail, who was Mordecai’s uncle (Mordecai had taken her as his own daughter)—she asked for nothing except what Hegai, the king’s eunuch and guardian of the women, advised. Esther found favor in the eyes of everyone who saw her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Esther was brought to King Ahasuerus and taken into his royal palace in the tenth month, which is the month of Tebeth, during the seventh year of his reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king loved Esther more than all the other women, and she gained his favor and approval above all the young women. As a result, he placed the royal crown on her head and made her queen in place of Vashti.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king held a grand banquet for all his officials and servants, which was Esther's feast. He also proclaimed a remission of taxes for the provinces and distributed gifts, in keeping with the king's royal generosity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the young women were assembled for the second time, Mordecai was seated at the king’s gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Esther had not yet revealed her family background or her nationality, as Mordecai had instructed her. Esther continued to follow Mordecai’s guidance, just as she had done when she was under his care.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that time, as Mordecai was seated at the king’s gate, two of the king’s eunuchs, Bigthan and Teresh, who were among the guards stationed at the entrance, became angry and plotted to assassinate King Ahasuerus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mordecai became aware of the matter and informed Queen Esther about it. Esther then reported it to the king, attributing the information to Mordecai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After a thorough investigation into the matter, it was discovered to be true. As a result, both individuals were executed by hanging on a tree. This event was recorded in the official chronicles in the presence of the king.</span></p>






</body></html>