<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sjjj71.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8ad8bd36-2f81-ca8c-7389-a9a86096cc9f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For three years, there was no conflict between Syria and Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the third year, King Jehoshaphat of Judah went to visit the king of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel said to his officials, "Are you aware that Ramoth in Gilead belongs to us, yet we are doing nothing to reclaim it from the control of the king of Syria?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He asked Jehoshaphat, "Will you join me in battle against Ramoth-gilead?" Jehoshaphat replied to the king of Israel, "I am with you as one; my people are your people, and my horses are your horses."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, "Please, seek the word of the LORD today."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel assembled about four hundred prophets and asked them, "Should I go to battle against Ramoth-gilead, or should I hold back?" They replied, "Go ahead, for the Lord will deliver it into the king's hands."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat asked, "Is there not another prophet of the LORD here, so that we may seek guidance from him?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "There is still one man, Micaiah son of Imlah, through whom we can seek the LORD's guidance. But I despise him because he never prophesies anything favorable about me—only disaster." Jehoshaphat replied, "The king should not speak like that."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king of Israel summoned one of his officers and said, "Bring Micaiah, the son of Imlah, here quickly."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, were seated on their thrones, dressed in their royal robes, at an open area near the entrance to the gate of Samaria. All the prophets were prophesying before them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zedekiah, the son of Chenaanah, made iron horns and declared, "This is what the LORD says: With these you will gore the Syrians until you have completely destroyed them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the prophets spoke in agreement, declaring, "Go up to Ramoth-gilead and succeed, for the LORD will deliver it into the king’s hand."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The messenger who had gone to summon Micaiah spoke to him, saying, "Listen, the prophets are unanimously declaring favorable things to the king. Please let your words align with theirs, and speak something favorable as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Micaiah replied, "As surely as the LORD lives, I will speak only what the LORD tells me to say."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Micaiah went to the king, and the king asked him, "Micaiah, should we go to war against Ramoth-gilead, or should we hold back?" Micaiah replied, "Go and succeed, for the LORD will hand it over to the king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to him, "How many times must I urge you to swear an oath that you will tell me nothing but the truth in the name of the LORD?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "I saw all of Israel scattered across the hills, like sheep without a shepherd. And the LORD said, 'These people have no leader; let each one return to his home in peace.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "Didn’t I warn you that he would never prophesy anything good about me, but only disaster?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "Listen now to the word of the LORD: I saw the LORD seated on His throne, with all the heavenly host standing beside Him, some on His right and some on His left."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said, "Who will convince Ahab to go up and meet his downfall at Ramoth-gilead?" One person suggested one way, and another proposed a different approach.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a spirit came forward and stood before the LORD, saying, "I will entice him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD asked him, "How will you do this?" He replied, "I will go out and become a deceptive spirit in the mouths of all his prophets." The LORD said, "You will succeed in persuading him and will prevail. Go out and do as you have said."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, understand this: the LORD has allowed a deceptive spirit to influence the words of all these prophets of yours, and the LORD has declared judgment against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Zedekiah, the son of Chenaanah, stepped forward and struck Micaiah on the cheek, saying, "How did the Spirit of the LORD move from me to speak to you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Micaiah replied, "You will see it on that day when you go into an inner room to hide yourself."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel said, "Take Micaiah and bring him back to Amon, the governor of the city, and to Joash, the king’s son."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And say, "This is what the king commands: Place this man in prison, and provide him only with the bread of hardship and the water of distress until I return safely."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Micaiah replied, "If you return safely, then the Lord has not spoken through me." Then he added, "Listen, all of you, take this to heart."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, went up to Ramoth-gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "I will change my appearance and go into the battle, but you should wear your royal robes." So the king of Israel disguised himself and entered the battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Aram instructed his thirty-two chariot commanders, saying, "Do not attack anyone, whether small or great, except for the king of Israel alone."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the commanders of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, "That must be the king of Israel!" So they turned to attack him. But Jehoshaphat cried out for help.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the commanders of the chariots realized that it was not the king of Israel, they stopped pursuing him and turned back.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A certain man drew his bow randomly and struck the king of Israel between the sections of his armor. The king then said to his chariot driver, "Turn the reins and take me out of the battle, for I am wounded."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The battle grew more intense that day, and the king was propped up in his chariot facing the Syrians. He died that evening, and the blood from his wound flowed down into the bottom of the chariot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the sun began to set, a command was issued throughout the army, declaring, "Let each man return to his own city and to his own land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king died and was taken to Samaria, where they buried him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And someone washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked up his blood, and they cleaned his armor, just as the LORD had declared through His word.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Ahab’s reign, including all his deeds, the ivory palace he constructed, and all the cities he built, are they not recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Ahab died and was buried with his ancestors, and his son Ahaziah succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat, the son of Asa, became king over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab's reign as king of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned for twenty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Azubah, the daughter of Shilhi.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He followed all the ways of his father Asa and did not turn away from them, doing what was right in the sight of the LORD. However, the high places were not removed, and the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat established a peaceful alliance with the king of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Jehoshaphat’s reign, the power he demonstrated, and the wars he fought—are they not recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the remaining followers of the pagan practices, who had persisted during the reign of his father Asa, he removed from the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, there was no king ruling in Edom; instead, a governor held the position of authority.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat built ships of Tarshish to sail to Ophir in search of gold, but the ships never made the journey because they were wrecked at Ezion-geber.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Ahaziah, the son of Ahab, said to Jehoshaphat, "Allow my servants to join your servants on the ships." But Jehoshaphat refused.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat died and was buried with his ancestors in the city of David, his forefather. His son Jehoram succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaziah, the son of Ahab, became king over Israel in Samaria during the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat's reign as king of Judah. He ruled over Israel for two years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed evil in the eyes of the LORD, following the ways of his father, the ways of his mother, and the ways of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he worshiped and served Baal, angering the LORD, the God of Israel, just as his father had done.</span></p>






</body></html>