<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 50</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sjjurb.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:89490036-52ee-353f-9e13-058b37d0d20a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 50</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that the LORD spoke concerning Babylon and the land of the Chaldeans, delivered through the prophet Jeremiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Proclaim this among the nations and make it known; raise a banner and announce it openly—do not hold back. Declare: "Babylon has been captured, Bel is put to shame, Merodach is shattered. Her idols are disgraced, her images are smashed to pieces."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the north, a nation will rise against her, and it will lay waste to her land, leaving it desolate. No one will live there anymore; both people and animals will flee and be gone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those days and at that time, declares the LORD, the people of Israel will come, both they and the people of Judah together. They will journey with weeping as they go, seeking the LORD their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will seek the way to Zion, turning their faces toward it, and they will say, "Come, let us unite ourselves with the LORD in an everlasting covenant that will never be forgotten."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My people have become like lost sheep; their leaders have led them astray, guiding them in the wrong direction. They have wandered from place to place, moving aimlessly from mountain to hill, and have forgotten the place where they once found safety and rest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All who encountered them have consumed them, and their enemies said, "We are not guilty, for they have sinned against the LORD, the dwelling place of righteousness, even the LORD, the hope of their ancestors."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Leave Babylon behind and depart from the land of the Chaldeans. Be like the leading goats that guide the flock, setting the pace and leading the way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for I am about to summon and bring against Babylon a gathering of powerful nations from the northern lands. They will prepare for battle and take their positions against her. From there, Babylon will be captured. Their arrows will be like those of a skilled and mighty warrior—none will miss their mark or return without accomplishing their purpose.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Chaldea will become plunder; all who plunder her will be fully satisfied, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you were filled with joy, because you celebrated, you who have laid waste to my inheritance, because you have grown fat like a well-fed heifer and roar like mighty bulls;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your mother will be utterly disgraced; she who gave birth to you will be put to shame. Indeed, the most backward of nations will become a desolate wasteland, a barren and arid desert.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the LORD’s fierce anger, it will not be inhabited but will lie completely desolate. Everyone who passes by Babylon will be appalled and will mock at all her calamities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prepare yourselves to attack Babylon from every side. All you who draw the bow, shoot at her without holding back; do not spare your arrows, for she has sinned against the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Cry out against her on every side! She has surrendered; her defenses have crumbled, her walls are demolished. This is the vengeance of the LORD. Bring retribution upon her; as she has done, so do to her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Destroy the one who sows seed in Babylon, and the one who wields the sickle at harvest time. Because of the terror of the sword of oppression, each will flee back to their own people, and each will escape to their own land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Israel is like a scattered sheep, driven away by lions. First, the king of Assyria devoured him, and now, this Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, has crushed his bones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Listen carefully, I will bring judgment upon the king of Babylon and his land, just as I brought judgment upon the king of Assyria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will restore Israel to its homeland, and they will graze on the fertile lands of Carmel and Bashan. Their souls will be fully satisfied in the regions of Mount Ephraim and Gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those days and at that time, declares the LORD, the guilt of Israel will be searched for, but there will be none; the sins of Judah will be sought, but they will not be found. For I will forgive those I have chosen to preserve.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Advance against the land of Merathaim, yes, against it, and against the people of Pekod. Devastate and completely destroy them, declares the LORD, and carry out everything I have commanded you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sound of war echoes across the land, accompanied by immense devastation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How has the hammer that struck the whole earth been shattered and destroyed! How has Babylon been reduced to a wasteland among the nations!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have set a trap for you, and you have been caught, O Babylon, without even realizing it. You have been discovered and seized because you have opposed the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has opened His arsenal and brought out the weapons of His wrath, for this is the task of the Lord GOD of Hosts in the land of the Chaldeans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Advance against her from the farthest border; break open her storehouses. Pile her up like heaps of rubble and completely destroy her. Leave nothing of her remaining.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Kill all her young bulls; let them be led to the slaughter. How terrible for them, for their day has arrived—the time of their judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sound of those fleeing and escaping from the land of Babylon will be heard, proclaiming in Zion the vengeance of the LORD our God, the vengeance for His temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Summon the archers to march against Babylon—all who draw the bow, encircle it completely; let no one escape. Repay her according to her deeds; do to her as she has done to others. For she has acted arrogantly against the LORD, against the Holy One of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, her young men will fall in the streets, and all her warriors will be destroyed on that day, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, I am against you, you who are filled with pride, declares the Lord GOD of hosts. For your day has arrived, the time when I will bring judgment upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The most arrogant will stumble and fall, with no one to help him rise again. I will set fire to his cities, and it will consume everything around him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts says: The people of Israel and the people of Judah were both oppressed together. All who took them captive held them tightly and refused to release them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their Redeemer is mighty; the LORD of armies is his name. He will fully defend their cause, so that he may bring peace to the land and turmoil to the people of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A sword is coming against the Chaldeans, declares the LORD, and against the people of Babylon, against her rulers, and against her wise advisors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A sword will come upon the deceivers, and they will become foolish; a sword will come upon the mighty warriors, and they will be filled with terror.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A sword will strike their horses, their chariots, and all the foreign troops among them, and they will become as weak as women. A sword will come against their treasures, and they will be plundered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A severe drought will come upon her waters, and they will dry up completely. This is because it is a land filled with carved images, and the people are utterly obsessed with their idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the wild animals of the desert will live there alongside the creatures of the barren lands, and owls will make their home in it. It will no longer be inhabited by people, nor will it be settled from generation to generation. It will remain desolate forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, declares the LORD, so no one will remain there, nor will any human being ever live there again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, a people will arise from the north, and a mighty nation, along with many kings, will rise up from the farthest reaches of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will wield the bow and the spear; they are ruthless and show no mercy. Their voices will roar like the sea, and they will ride on horses, arrayed for battle like warriors, ready to fight against you, O daughter of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Babylon has received news about them, and his strength has failed him. Distress has seized him, and he is gripped with agony, like the pains of a woman in labor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, he will rise up like a lion from the thickets along the Jordan, advancing toward the secure pastures. But I will swiftly drive them away from her, and I will appoint over her the one I have chosen. For who is like me? Who can summon me to account? And who is the shepherd who can stand firm before me?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen to the counsel of the LORD, which He has determined against Babylon, and to His plans, which He has devised against the land of the Chaldeans: Even the weakest among the flock will drag them away; He will surely make their dwelling place desolate along with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the news of Babylon's capture spreads, the earth trembles, and the outcry echoes among the nations.</span></p>






</body></html>