<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Matthew Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sjjw06.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:851cb547-aada-3a5e-7a90-54aa5572bf48" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Matthew Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea during the reign of King Herod, behold, wise men from the east arrived in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They asked, "Where is the one who has been born as the king of the Jews? For we saw his star rising in the east and have come to honor him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When King Herod heard about these events, he became deeply disturbed, and all of Jerusalem was unsettled along with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After assembling all the chief priests and teachers of the law among the people, he inquired of them where the Messiah was to be born.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied to him, "In Bethlehem of Judea, for this is what was written by the prophet:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means insignificant among the leaders of Judah; for from you will come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Herod, after secretly summoning the wise men, carefully questioned them about the exact time the star had appeared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He sent them to Bethlehem and said, "Go and search carefully for the young child. Once you have found him, report back to me so that I too may come and pay him homage."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After hearing the king, they set out on their journey. And behold, the star they had seen rising in the east went ahead of them until it came to rest over the place where the young child was.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they saw the star, they were filled with immense and overwhelming joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they entered the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother. They bowed down and worshiped him. Then they opened their treasures and offered him gifts: gold, frankincense, and myrrh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After being divinely warned in a dream not to go back to Herod, they returned to their own country by a different route.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had left, suddenly an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, “Get up, take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt. Stay there until I tell you to return, because Herod is going to search for the child to kill him.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he got up, he took the young child and his mother during the night and left for Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he remained there until Herod's death, so that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying, "Out of Egypt I called my son."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Herod realized that the wise men had deceived him, he became furious. He then ordered his soldiers to kill all the male children in Bethlehem and its surrounding regions who were two years old or younger, based on the time he had carefully determined from his questioning of the wise men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In Ramah, a voice was heard—mourning, weeping, and deep sorrow. Rachel is weeping for her children, refusing to be comforted, because they are no more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But after Herod died, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream while he was in Egypt, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel said, "Get up, take the child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel, because those who were seeking to take the child’s life are now dead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He got up, took the young child and his mother, and went into the land of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when he learned that Archelaus was ruling over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. However, after being divinely warned in a dream, he withdrew to the region of Galilee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He went and settled in a town called Nazareth, so that what was spoken through the prophets might be fulfilled: "He will be called a Nazarene."</span></p>






</body></html>