<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 29</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sjkine.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9c8d559f-8e2b-c077-0a61-f8e33c1f2ad4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 29</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King David then addressed the entire assembly, saying, "My son Solomon, whom God alone has chosen, is still young and inexperienced, yet the task before him is immense. For this temple is not intended for human purposes but for the Lord God Himself."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have diligently prepared with all my strength for the house of my God: gold for the gold items, silver for the silver items, bronze for the bronze items, iron for the iron items, and wood for the wooden items. I have also gathered onyx stones, stones for setting, sparkling stones, stones of various colors, every kind of precious stone, and an abundance of marble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, because I have a deep love for the house of my God, I have personally contributed from my own wealth—gold and silver—to the house of my God, in addition to all that I have already provided for the sacred temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Three thousand talents of gold, specifically the gold from Ophir, and seven thousand talents of purified silver, were used to cover the walls of the buildings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The gold is to be used for items made of gold, and the silver for items made of silver, as well as for all kinds of skilled craftsmanship. Now, who among you is willing to dedicate your service today to the LORD?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the leaders of the ancestral families, the heads of the tribes of Israel, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and the officials overseeing the king’s projects all gave willingly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They contributed to the service of the house of God: five thousand talents of gold, ten thousand darics of gold, ten thousand talents of silver, eighteen thousand talents of bronze, and one hundred thousand talents of iron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who possessed precious stones contributed them to the treasury of the house of the LORD, placing them under the supervision of Jehiel the Gershonite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the people celebrated with great joy because they had given willingly, offering their gifts to the LORD with wholehearted devotion. King David also rejoiced deeply, filled with overwhelming gladness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, David praised the LORD in the presence of the entire assembly, saying, "May you be blessed, LORD, God of Israel, our father, from everlasting to everlasting."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yours, O LORD, is the greatness, the power, the glory, the victory, and the majesty. For everything in the heavens and on the earth belongs to you; yours is the kingdom, O LORD, and you are supreme over all as the highest authority.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Both wealth and honor come from you, and you rule over all things. In your hand lies power and might, and it is within your power to make great and to give strength to all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, our God, we give you thanks and honor your magnificent name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But who am I, and who are my people, that we should have the ability to give so freely in this way? For everything comes from you, and what we have given you is simply what belongs to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For we are but foreigners and temporary residents before you, just as all our ancestors were. Our days on earth are like a fleeting shadow, and there is no one who can remain here permanently.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD our God, all these resources that we have gathered to build a house for your holy name come from your hand, and everything belongs to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also know, my God, that you examine the heart and delight in integrity. As for me, with a sincere heart I have willingly given all these things. And now, I have joyfully witnessed your people, who are gathered here, offering willingly to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, our ancestors, may this remain forever in the deepest thoughts and intentions of your people’s hearts, and may their hearts be fully devoted to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Grant my son Solomon a wholehearted devotion to obey your commandments, your decrees, and your statutes, and to carry out all these things, as well as to build the temple for which I have made preparations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David addressed the entire assembly, saying, "Now, give praise to the LORD your God." The whole assembly then praised the LORD, the God of their ancestors. They bowed their heads low and worshiped the LORD, as well as the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the day following that occasion, they presented sacrifices to the LORD and offered burnt offerings to Him—a thousand bulls, a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs, along with their accompanying drink offerings. They also brought numerous other sacrifices on behalf of all Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They ate and drank before the LORD on that day with great joy. Then they proclaimed Solomon, the son of David, as king for the second time and anointed him before the LORD to serve as the supreme ruler, while Zadok was anointed to serve as priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Solomon took his seat on the throne of the LORD as king, succeeding his father David, and he flourished. All Israel submitted to his rule.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the leaders, the mighty warriors, and even all the sons of King David pledged their loyalty and submitted to King Solomon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD greatly exalted Solomon in the eyes of all Israel, granting him a level of royal splendor and majesty that surpassed any king who had ruled over Israel before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so David, the son of Jesse, ruled as king over all of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David ruled over Israel for a total of forty years. He reigned in Hebron for seven years and in Jerusalem for thirty-three years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He passed away at a ripe old age, having lived a long, fulfilling life, abundant in wealth and honor. His son Solomon then succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The deeds of King David, from beginning to end, are recorded in the book of Samuel the seer, in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Throughout his reign and with all his power, along with the events that occurred during his time, both concerning him and concerning Israel, as well as all the kingdoms of the surrounding nations.</span></p>






</body></html>