<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sjlclf.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:830bf7d5-accd-d09f-57e4-97e1b4f53fb3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that the LORD gave to Jeremiah:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to the words of this covenant, and proclaim them to the people of Judah and the residents of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you shall say to them, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: Cursed is anyone who does not obey the terms of this covenant."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what I commanded your ancestors on the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, from that iron furnace of oppression: "Listen to my voice and carry out all that I command you. If you do this, you will be my people, and I will be your God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that I may fulfill the oath I swore to your ancestors, to give them a land abundant with prosperity and blessing, as it is today. Then I responded, saying, "Let it be so, O LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD said to me, "Go and declare all these words in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying, 'Listen to the terms of this covenant and obey them.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I solemnly warned your ancestors on the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, and I have continued to warn them persistently, rising early and urging them, saying, "Listen to my voice and obey it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet they did not obey, nor did they listen, but each one followed the stubbornness of their own wicked heart. Therefore, I will bring upon them all the consequences of this covenant, which I commanded them to follow, but they did not do so.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "A conspiracy has been uncovered among the people of Judah and the residents of Jerusalem."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have turned back to the sins of their ancestors, who refused to listen to my words. They have followed other gods and served them instead. Both the house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken the covenant I made with their forefathers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says: "Listen, I am about to bring disaster upon them, a calamity from which they will not be able to escape. Even if they cry out to me, I will not listen to them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the cities of Judah and the people of Jerusalem will go and cry out to the gods to whom they have been burning incense. But these gods will not be able to save them in their time of trouble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah, your gods are as numerous as your cities, and in every street of Jerusalem, you have set up altars to that disgraceful idol—altars for burning incense to Baal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, do not pray for this people, nor raise a plea or prayer on their behalf, for I will not listen to them when they cry out to me in their distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What does my beloved have to do in my house, since she has committed shameful acts with many? Even the sacred offerings have been taken from you. When you do evil, you take delight in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD named you "A flourishing olive tree, beautiful and bearing excellent fruit." But with the roar of a mighty uproar, He has set fire to it, and its branches are shattered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD of hosts, who planted you, has declared disaster against you because of the wickedness committed by the house of Israel and the house of Judah. They have brought harm upon themselves by provoking Me to anger through their offerings of incense to Baal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has granted me understanding of this matter, and I am fully aware of it. Then you revealed to me their actions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I was like a lamb or an ox led to the slaughter, unaware that they had plotted schemes against me. They said, "Let us destroy the tree along with its fruit; let us cut him off from the land of the living, so that his name will no longer be remembered."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But, O LORD of all power, who judges with justice, who examines the deepest thoughts and intentions of the heart, let me witness your judgment upon them, for I have laid my case before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says concerning the men of Anathoth, who are seeking your life and saying, “Do not prophesy in the name of the LORD, or you will die by our hand”:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD of hosts declares: Listen carefully, I am about to bring punishment upon them. The young men will perish by the sword, and their sons and daughters will die from famine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And none of them will remain, for I will bring disaster upon the people of Anathoth, in the year when I punish them.</span></p>






</body></html>