<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 28</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sjsgws.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2d08508c-df60-5ad1-e0ce-a1beebd14a31" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 28</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David gathered all the leaders of Israel—the heads of the tribes, the commanders of the divisions that served the king in their appointed turns, the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, the overseers of all the king’s property and possessions, as well as the officials, the mighty warriors, and all the valiant fighting men—to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King David rose to his feet and said, "Listen to me, my brothers and my people. It was in my heart to build a permanent house for the ark of the covenant of the LORD, a resting place for the footstool of our God, and I had made preparations for the construction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But God said to me, "You shall not build a house for my name, because you have been a warrior and have shed blood."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the LORD, the God of Israel, selected me from all my father’s family to be king over Israel forever. For He chose Judah as the ruling tribe, and from the house of Judah, He chose my father’s family. Then, among my father’s sons, He was pleased to make me king over all Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Out of all my sons—for the LORD has blessed me with many—He has chosen my son Solomon to sit on the throne of the kingdom of the LORD, ruling over Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to me, "Your son Solomon will build My house and My courts, for I have chosen him to be My son, and I will be his father."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, I will establish his kingdom forever, provided he remains steadfast in obeying my commandments and my decrees, as he is doing today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, in the presence of all Israel, the assembly of the LORD, and before our God, diligently observe and seek to follow all the commands of the LORD your God. By doing so, you will be able to take possession of this good land and pass it on as a lasting inheritance to your descendants forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you, Solomon my son, acknowledge the God of your father, and serve Him with a whole heart and a willing spirit. For the LORD examines every heart and understands every inclination of the thoughts. If you seek Him, He will be found by you; but if you abandon Him, He will reject you forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be attentive now, for the LORD has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary. Be courageous and carry it out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David presented to his son Solomon the design for the porch, the layout of its buildings, the storerooms, the upper rooms, the inner chambers, and the space for the Most Holy Place where the mercy seat would rest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the design of everything he had in mind, inspired by the Spirit, included the layout of the courtyards of the house of the LORD, as well as all the surrounding rooms, the storerooms of the house of God, and the treasuries for the dedicated offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, for the divisions of the priests and the Levites, for all the tasks involved in the service of the house of the LORD, and for all the utensils used in the service of the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He provided gold, measured by weight, for all the gold items and for every kind of gold utensil used in service. Likewise, he supplied silver, weighed out precisely, for all the silver utensils and for every kind of silver implement required for service.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The weight of the gold lampstands and their gold lamps was carefully measured for each lampstand and its lamps. Similarly, the weight of the silver lampstands and their silver lamps was also measured, each according to its specific purpose and use.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He carefully measured out the gold needed for the tables of the bread of the Presence, providing the required amount for each table. In the same manner, he also measured out the silver for the silver tables.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also provided pure gold for the forks, the bowls, and the cups. For the golden basins, he gave a specific weight of gold for each basin, and similarly, he assigned a specific weight of silver for each silver basin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the altar of incense, they used refined gold, measured by weight. They also used gold to craft the design of the chariot of the cherubim, whose wings were spread out and covered the ark of the covenant of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said, "All of this—the entire design of this pattern—the LORD has caused me to understand through His guidance, as if His own hand had written it out for me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to his son Solomon, "Be strong and courageous, and carry out this task. Do not be afraid or discouraged, for the LORD God, my God, is with you. He will not abandon you or fail you until you have completed all the work for the service of the house of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: the divisions of the priests and the Levites will be at your side for all the work of the house of God. Moreover, every skilled and willing craftsman will assist you in every kind of task, no matter how specialized. Additionally, the leaders and all the people will be fully at your command, ready to carry out your instructions.</span></p>






</body></html>