<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nehemiah Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sjtfje.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:977a40b7-fd1a-3771-2dda-f20e8d49d386" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nehemiah Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, they read aloud from the book of Moses in the hearing of the people, and it was found written there that the Ammonite and the Moabite must never be admitted into the assembly of God, not for all time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they did not provide the Israelites with bread and water, but instead hired Balaam to oppose them, intending to curse them. However, our God transformed the curse into a blessing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had heard the law read to them, they removed from the community of Israel all those who were of foreign descent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before this time, Eliashib the priest, who was in charge of the storerooms of the house of our God, had formed a close association with Tobiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He had prepared a large room for him, where previously they stored the grain offerings, the frankincense, the sacred vessels, the tithes of grain, new wine, and olive oil—all of which were designated by command to be given to the Levites, the singers, and the gatekeepers, as well as the contributions for the priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During this entire period, I was not in Jerusalem, for in the thirty-second year of Artaxerxes, king of Babylon, I went to the king. After some time, I received permission from the king to leave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I arrived in Jerusalem, I learned about the wrongdoing of Eliashib on behalf of Tobiah, in that he had provided him a room within the courts of the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This deeply troubled me, so I removed all of Tobiah’s belongings from the room and threw them out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I gave the order, and they purified the storerooms. Afterward, I returned the sacred vessels of the house of God to their place, along with the grain offerings and the incense.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I realized that the portions meant for the Levites had not been given to them, because the Levites and the singers, who were responsible for the work, had each fled to their own fields.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I confronted the leaders and demanded, "Why has the house of God been neglected?" I gathered the people together and restored them to their proper roles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the people of Judah brought the tithe of their grain, new wine, and olive oil to the storehouses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I appointed overseers for the treasuries: Shelemiah the priest, Zadok the scribe, and Pedaiah from the Levites. Assisting them was Hanan, the son of Zaccur and grandson of Mattaniah, because they were considered trustworthy. Their responsibility was to distribute the supplies to their fellow Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O my God, remember me for this, and do not erase the good works I have done for the house of my God and for its service.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that time, I observed in Judah people treading winepresses on the Sabbath, bringing in sheaves of grain, loading donkeys, and transporting wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of goods into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. I confronted them and warned them on the very day they were selling food.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Men from Tyre also lived there, bringing fish and all kinds of goods, which they sold on the Sabbath to the people of Judah and in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I confronted the leaders of Judah and said to them, "What is this wicked thing you are doing, desecrating the Sabbath day?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Didn’t your ancestors act in this same way, and didn’t our God bring all this disaster upon us and upon this city? Yet now you are bringing even greater wrath upon Israel by desecrating the Sabbath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It happened that as the gates of Jerusalem began to grow dark before the Sabbath, I gave orders for the gates to be closed. I instructed that they were not to be opened until after the Sabbath. I also stationed some of my servants at the gates to ensure that no goods or burdens were brought in on the Sabbath day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the merchants and sellers of all kinds of goods camped outside Jerusalem once or twice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I confronted them and said, "Why are you spending the night near the wall? If you do this again, I will take action against you." From that time on, they no longer came on the Sabbath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I instructed the Levites to purify themselves and to come and guard the gates, in order to honor and set apart the Sabbath day as holy. Remember me, O my God, for this as well, and show me mercy according to the abundance of your steadfast love.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those days, I also observed Jews who had taken wives from Ashdod, Ammon, and Moab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The children spoke partly in the language of Ashdod and were unable to speak in the language of the Jews, but instead used the language of each people group they were associated with.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I confronted them, rebuked them, and pronounced curses upon them. I struck some of them and pulled out their hair, compelling them to swear an oath before God, saying, "You must not give your daughters in marriage to their sons, nor take their daughters as wives for your sons or for yourselves."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Didn’t King Solomon of Israel sin because of these things? Yet among many nations, there was no king like him, for he was dearly loved by his God, and God made him king over all Israel. Even so, foreign women led him into sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Should we then listen to you and commit this great wrongdoing, sinning against our God by marrying foreign wives?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One of the sons of Joiada, who was the son of Eliashib the high priest, had become the son-in-law of Sanballat the Horonite. Because of this, I drove him away from me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remember them, O my God, for they have dishonored the priesthood and violated the sacred covenant established for the priests and the Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, I purified them from all foreign influences and assigned specific duties to the priests and the Levites, each one to their appointed tasks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the contributions of wood for the altar at the designated times, and for the offering of the firstfruits, please remember me, my God, and show me favor.</span></p>






</body></html>