<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sjukhk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5279f57d-3601-aecf-d54b-0efdb339f31d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Pashur, the son of Immer, who was a priest and the chief officer in the house of the LORD, heard that Jeremiah had spoken these prophecies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pashur struck Jeremiah the prophet and placed him in the stocks located at the Upper Gate of Benjamin, near the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, Pashur released Jeremiah from the stocks. Then Jeremiah said to him, "The LORD has not named you Pashur, but rather 'Terror on Every Side.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says: I will make you a source of horror to yourself and to all your friends. They will fall by the sword of their enemies, and you will witness it with your own eyes. I will hand over all of Judah to the power of the king of Babylon. He will take them captive to Babylon and put them to death by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, I will hand over all the resources of this city, all its toil, and all its valuable possessions. I will also deliver all the treasures of the kings of Judah into the hands of their enemies. They will plunder them, seize them, and carry them off to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you, Pashhur, along with all who live in your household, will be taken into captivity. You will go to Babylon, and there you will die and be buried—you and all your friends to whom you have prophesied deceit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, you have misled me, and I allowed myself to be misled. You are stronger than I am, and you have overcome me. I am ridiculed every day; everyone mocks me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since I began to speak, I have cried out, I have shouted about violence and destruction; for the word of the LORD has become a source of reproach and mockery to me, every single day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I declared, "I will no longer speak of him or mention his name again." But his message was like a blazing fire within my heart, trapped in my bones. I grew exhausted from holding it back, and I could no longer contain it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I have heard the slander of many, terror on every side. They say, "Denounce him! Let us denounce him!" All my close friends watch for my stumbling, saying, "Perhaps he can be lured into error, and we will overpower him; then we will take our revenge on him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the LORD stands with me like a mighty and fearsome warrior; therefore, those who persecute me will stumble and will not succeed. They will be utterly disgraced, for they will not prosper. Their eternal shame will never be forgotten.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But, O LORD of all power, who examines the righteous and sees the innermost thoughts and intentions of the heart, let me witness your judgment upon them; for I have laid my case before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sing to the LORD, give praise to the LORD, for He has rescued the life of the needy from the grasp of the wicked.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the day of my birth be cursed, and may the day my mother gave birth to me never be blessed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May that man be cursed who brought news to my father, saying, "A son is born to you," filling him with great joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May that man be like the cities that the LORD destroyed without relenting. Let him hear the sound of distress in the morning and the clamor of alarm at midday.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because he did not kill me in the womb, or allow my mother to become my grave, leaving her womb perpetually swollen with me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why was I born from the womb only to experience toil and grief, so that my days would be spent in shame?</span></p>






</body></html>