<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sjxpyi.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:01e6dfe5-0163-ae35-9906-b4d8c8740bf6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines assembled their armies for battle and gathered at Shochoh, which is in the territory of Judah. They set up camp between Shochoh and Azekah, at a place called Ephes-dammim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul and the Israelite forces assembled and camped in the Valley of Elah, where they arranged their battle lines to face the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines took their position on one hill, and Israel stood on another hill, with a valley separating the two armies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A champion emerged from the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, from Gath. He stood six cubits and a span tall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He wore a bronze helmet on his head and was clad in a coat of armor made of chainmail. The weight of the armor was five thousand shekels of bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He wore bronze armor on his legs and carried a bronze javelin slung between his shoulders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The shaft of his spear was as thick as a weaver’s beam, and the iron point of his spear weighed six hundred shekels. A shield-bearer walked ahead of him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He stood and shouted to the armies of Israel, saying to them, "Why have you come out to prepare for battle? Am I not a Philistine, and are you not servants of Saul? Choose one of your men and have him come down to face me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If he is able to fight me and kill me, then we will become your servants. But if I overcome him and kill him, then you will become our servants and serve us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistine declared, "Today I challenge the armies of Israel! Send me a man so that we may fight each other."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Saul and all the people of Israel heard the words spoken by the Philistine, they were filled with terror and overwhelmed by fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David was the son of Jesse, an Ephrathite from Bethlehem in Judah. Jesse had eight sons, and in the days of Saul, he was already an elderly man, well-advanced in years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jesse’s three oldest sons went with Saul to join the battle. Their names were Eliab, the firstborn; Abinadab, the second; and Shammah, the third.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David was the youngest, while the three oldest brothers served in Saul's army.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But David left Saul and returned to Bethlehem to tend his father’s sheep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the Philistine came forward each morning and evening, taking his stand for forty days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jesse said to his son David, "Take this ephah of roasted grain and these ten loaves of bread, and hurry to the camp to deliver them to your brothers."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take these ten cheeses to the commander of their thousand, and see how your brothers are doing, and bring back some assurance from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Saul, along with his men and all the soldiers of Israel, were in the Valley of Elah, engaged in battle against the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David got up early in the morning, entrusted the sheep to a shepherd, and set out as his father Jesse had instructed him. When he arrived at the camp, the army was marching out to take their positions for battle, and David joined them, shouting the war cry along with the troops.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The armies of Israel and the Philistines had drawn up their battle lines, facing each other in readiness for combat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David left his supplies in the care of the supply keeper, hurried to the battlefield, and went to greet his brothers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As David was speaking with them, suddenly the champion appeared—Goliath of Gath, the Philistine, coming forward from the ranks of the Philistine army. He repeated his usual challenge, and David heard his words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all the men of Israel saw the man, they fled from him and were utterly terrified.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Israel said, "Have you seen this man who has come forward? He has come to insult Israel! Whoever kills him will be richly rewarded by the king. The king will give him great wealth, his daughter in marriage, and will exempt his father’s family from all obligations in Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David spoke to the men standing near him, saying, “What will be done for the man who kills this Philistine and removes this disgrace from Israel? Who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should dare to defy the armies of the living God?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people responded to him in this way, saying, "This is what will be done to the man who kills him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David spoke to the men, his oldest brother Eliab heard him and became furious with David. He said, “Why have you come down here? And who did you leave in charge of those few sheep out in the wilderness? I know how arrogant you are and the wickedness in your heart. You’ve only come down here to watch the battle!”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David responded, "What have I done now? Is there no reason for this?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He then turned to face another person and spoke in the same way as before, and the people responded to him just as they had done earlier.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the words that David had spoken were reported, they were repeated to Saul, and he summoned David to come before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Saul, "Do not let anyone lose heart because of him. Your servant will go and fight this Philistine."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said to David, "You are not capable of going out to fight against this Philistine. You are only a young man, while he has been a seasoned warrior from his youth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Saul, "Your servant used to tend his father's sheep, and when a lion or a bear came and carried off a lamb from the flock,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I pursued him, struck him down, and rescued the prey from his mouth. When he turned to attack me, I seized him by his beard, struck him again, and killed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your servant has killed both the lion and the bear, and this uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them, for he has dared to insult the armies of the living God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David continued, "The LORD, who rescued me from the claws of the lion and the claws of the bear, will also deliver me from the hand of this Philistine." Saul replied to David, "Go, and may the LORD be with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul provided David with his own armor, placing a bronze helmet on his head and equipping him with a coat of mail.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David fastened his sword over his armor and attempted to walk, but he was not accustomed to wearing them. David said to Saul, "I cannot go with these, because I have not tested them." So David took them off.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took his staff in his hand and selected five smooth stones from the stream, placing them in the shepherd’s pouch he carried, which was his bag. With his sling in hand, he approached the Philistine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistine advanced, closing the distance toward David, while the man carrying his shield walked ahead of him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Philistine looked around and saw David, he despised him because he was only a young man, with a ruddy complexion and a handsome appearance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistine said to David, "Am I some kind of dog, that you come at me with sticks?" Then the Philistine invoked curses upon David, calling on his gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistine said to David, "Come here to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the sky and the wild animals of the field."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David said to the Philistine, "You come against me with a sword, a spear, and a shield, but I come to you in the name of the LORD of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have insulted."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today, the LORD will deliver you into my hands. I will strike you down and cut off your head. I will give the bodies of the Philistine army to the birds of the sky and the wild animals of the earth, so that the whole world may know that there is a God in Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all those gathered here will understand that the LORD does not deliver by sword or spear, for the battle belongs to the LORD, and He will hand you over to us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Philistine got up, approached, and came closer to confront David, David quickly moved forward and ran toward the battle line to meet the Philistine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David reached into his bag, took out a stone, and hurled it with his sling. The stone struck the Philistine in the forehead, embedding itself deeply. Goliath collapsed face down on the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David triumphed over the Philistine with a sling and a stone, striking down the Philistine and killing him. Yet David held no sword in his hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David ran and stood over the Philistine. He took the Philistine’s sword, pulled it from its sheath, and killed him, then cut off his head with it. When the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they turned and fled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Israel and Judah rose up, raised a battle cry, and chased the Philistines all the way to the valley and to the gates of Ekron. The Philistine wounded lay scattered along the road from Shaaraim as far as Gath and Ekron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites turned back from pursuing the Philistines and plundered their camps.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem, but he placed the man’s armor in his own tent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Saul saw David going out to face the Philistine, he asked Abner, the commander of the army, "Abner, whose son is this young man?" Abner replied, "As surely as you live, O king, I do not know."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said, "Find out whose son this young man is."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As David was returning from defeating the Philistine, Abner took him and brought him before Saul, carrying the head of the Philistine in his hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">58 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul asked him, "Whose son are you, young man?" David replied, "I am the son of your servant Jesse of Bethlehem."</span></p>






</body></html>