<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sk10l6.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3afb6717-8cc7-8e0a-50eb-1e70ebbf3864" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the seventeenth year of Pekah, the son of Remaliah, Ahaz, the son of Jotham, became king of Judah and began his reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaz was twenty years old when he became king, and he ruled for sixteen years in Jerusalem. However, he did not do what was right in the eyes of the LORD his God, unlike his ancestor David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, he followed the practices of the kings of Israel and even sacrificed his son by passing him through the fire, imitating the detestable acts of the nations whom the LORD had driven out before the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He offered sacrifices and burned incense on the elevated shrines, on the hills, and beneath every flourishing tree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Rezin, the king of Aram (Syria), and Pekah, the son of Remaliah, the king of Israel, marched against Jerusalem to wage war. They laid siege to Ahaz but were unable to defeat him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, King Rezin of Aram (Syria) recaptured Elath for Aram and expelled the Judeans from the city. The Arameans then settled in Elath, and they have lived there to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser, the king of Assyria, with this message: "I am your servant and your loyal subject. Come and rescue me from the power of the king of Syria and the king of Israel, who have joined forces to attack me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaz took the silver and gold that was stored in the house of the LORD and in the treasuries of the royal palace, and he sent it as a gift to the king of Assyria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Assyria listened to him, for the king of Assyria marched against Damascus, captured it, and exiled its people to Kir. He also put Rezin to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Ahaz traveled to Damascus to meet Tiglath-pileser, the king of Assyria. While there, he saw an altar that was in Damascus. King Ahaz then sent detailed instructions to Urijah the priest, including the design and specifications of the altar, along with a precise description of its craftsmanship.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Urijah the priest constructed an altar exactly as King Ahaz had instructed from Damascus. Urijah completed it before King Ahaz returned from Damascus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the king returned from Damascus, he saw the altar. He approached it and presented offerings upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He burned his burnt offering and his grain offering, poured out his drink offering, and sprinkled the blood of his peace offerings on the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also took the bronze altar, which stood before the LORD, from the front of the temple, from the space between the altar and the house of the LORD, and placed it on the north side of the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Ahaz gave this command to Urijah the priest: "On the large altar, offer the morning burnt offering, the evening grain offering, the king's burnt sacrifice, and his grain offering, along with the burnt offerings of all the people of the land, their grain offerings, and their drink offerings. Sprinkle on it all the blood of the burnt offerings and all the blood of the sacrifices. As for the bronze altar, it will be reserved for me to seek guidance."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Urijah the priest carried out everything exactly as King Ahaz had commanded him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Ahaz dismantled the panels of the stands and removed the basins from them. He also took down the large bronze basin, known as the Sea, from the bronze oxen that supported it and placed it on a stone pavement.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He removed the covered structure for the Sabbath that had been built in the temple, as well as the king’s outer entrance, and redirected them from the house of the LORD for the use of the king of Assyria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Ahaz, including all that he accomplished, are recorded in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah, are they not?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaz died and was buried with his ancestors in the City of David. His son Hezekiah succeeded him as king.</span></p>






</body></html>