<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Romans Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sk1y4n.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d535ff8b-703a-cd97-d500-f24eebd82b41" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Romans Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What then can we conclude about Abraham, our forefather according to the flesh? What did he discover or achieve?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If Abraham had been declared righteous based on his works, he would have reason to boast—but not before God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What does the Scripture say? "Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, to the one who works, the reward is not considered a gift of grace, but rather something owed as a debt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But to the one who does not rely on works, but instead trusts in the one who declares the ungodly to be righteous, their faith is credited as righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as David also speaks of the blessedness of the person to whom God credits righteousness apart from works.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He declared, "Blessed are those whose wrongdoings have been pardoned and whose sins have been completely covered."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Blessed is the person whose sins the Lord does not count against them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Does this blessing, then, come only to those who are circumcised, or does it also extend to the uncircumcised? For we affirm that Abraham's faith was credited to him as righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How, then, was it credited to him? Was it when he was circumcised or when he was still uncircumcised? It was not after his circumcision, but while he was still uncircumcised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he received the sign of circumcision, which was a mark confirming the righteousness that comes through faith—a faith he had while still uncircumcised. This was so that he might become the father of all who believe, even those who are not circumcised, so that righteousness might also be credited to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he is the father of circumcision not only to those who are circumcised, but also to those who follow in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had while he was still uncircumcised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The promise that Abraham and his descendants would inherit the world was not given through the law, but through the righteousness that comes by faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if those who rely on the law are heirs, then faith becomes meaningless, and the promise is rendered ineffective.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because the law brings about wrath: for where there is no law, there can be no violation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, it is based on faith, so that it may be by grace, in order to ensure that the promise is guaranteed to all his descendants—not only to those who are under the law but also to those who share the faith of Abraham. He is the father of us all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As it is written, "I have made you a father of many nations," in the presence of God, whom he believed—the God who gives life to the dead and calls into existence things that do not yet exist.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Against all human expectation, he believed with unwavering hope, so that he might become the father of many nations, just as it had been declared to him: "Your descendants will be like this."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And because his faith was strong, he did not dwell on the fact that his body was as good as dead—since he was about a hundred years old—nor did he focus on the lifelessness of Sarah’s womb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He did not waver in doubt regarding God's promise, but remained steadfast in faith, giving honor to God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And being completely convinced that what he had promised, he was also fully capable of accomplishing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so it was credited to him as righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This was not written solely for his benefit, that righteousness was credited to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But this righteousness is also granted to us, who believe in God, the one who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. It will be credited to us as righteousness, just as it was to Abraham, when we place our faith in Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was handed over to death because of our sins, and he was raised to life to secure our right standing with God.</span></p>






</body></html>