<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sk2y3t.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7c50b8ff-9492-015e-f7de-180fab905e19" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, Abijah, the son of Jeroboam, became ill.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeroboam said to his wife, “Please, get up and disguise yourself so that no one will recognize you as my wife. Then go to Shiloh, where the prophet Ahijah is. He is the one who told me that I would become king over this people.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take with you ten loaves of bread, some cakes, and a jar of honey, and go to him. He will tell you what will happen to the child.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jeroboam’s wife did as she was told. She got up and went to Shiloh and arrived at the house of Ahijah. Now Ahijah could no longer see because his eyes were dim due to his old age.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Ahijah, "Listen, Jeroboam’s wife is coming to ask you about her son, for he is sick. This is what you must say to her: When she arrives, she will pretend to be someone else."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Ahijah heard the sound of her footsteps as she entered through the door, he said, "Come in, wife of Jeroboam. Why are you pretending to be someone else? I have been sent to you with a solemn message."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and tell Jeroboam, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: Because I raised you up from among the people and made you ruler over My people Israel..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I tore the kingdom away from the house of David and gave it to you. Yet you have not been like my servant David, who obeyed my commandments and followed me wholeheartedly, doing only what was right in my sight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have committed greater evil than all who came before you. You have gone and made for yourself other gods and idols, provoking me to anger, and you have utterly disregarded me, casting me aside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully: I am about to bring disaster upon the house of Jeroboam. I will cut off from Jeroboam every male, both those who are active and those who are confined or abandoned in Israel. I will completely remove the remnants of Jeroboam’s house, just as one disposes of waste until nothing remains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone from Jeroboam's family who dies in the city will be devoured by dogs, and anyone who dies in the open country will be eaten by the birds of the sky. This is what the LORD has declared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, rise up and return to your home. When your feet enter the city, the child will die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of Israel will mourn for him and give him a proper burial, for he alone from the house of Jeroboam will be laid to rest in a grave. This is because in him there was found something good—a genuine devotion to the LORD, the God of Israel—within the household of Jeroboam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the LORD will appoint a king over Israel who will completely destroy the family of Jeroboam—and this will happen very soon, even now.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will strike Israel, causing it to tremble like a reed swaying in the water. He will uproot Israel from this good land, which He gave to their ancestors, and scatter them beyond the river, because they have set up sacred poles and provoked the LORD to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will abandon Israel because of the sins of Jeroboam, who sinned and caused Israel to sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeroboam's wife got up and left, traveling to Tirzah. As she reached the doorway of the house, the child died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They buried him, and all Israel mourned for him, in accordance with the word of the LORD that He had spoken through His servant Ahijah the prophet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Jeroboam’s reign, including his military campaigns and how he ruled, are recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeroboam ruled for twenty-two years. Then he died and was buried with his ancestors, and his son Nadab succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, became king over Judah. He was forty-one years old when he began his reign, and he ruled for seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city that the LORD had chosen from all the tribes of Israel to establish His name there. His mother’s name was Naamah, an Ammonite woman.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah acted wickedly in the eyes of the LORD, and they aroused His anger by the sins they committed, surpassing even the wrongdoing of their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They also constructed high places, set up sacred pillars, and established Asherah poles on every elevated hill and beneath every flourishing tree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were also those who practiced sexual immorality in the land, engaging in all the detestable acts of the nations that the LORD had driven out before the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fifth year of King Rehoboam’s reign, Shishak, the king of Egypt, advanced against Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He seized the treasures from the house of the LORD and the treasures from the king’s palace; he took everything. He also carried off all the gold shields that Solomon had made.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Rehoboam replaced the gold shields with bronze ones and entrusted them to the commanders of the royal guard, who were responsible for guarding the entrance to the king’s palace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so it happened that whenever the king entered the house of the LORD, the guards would carry the shields and then return them to the guardroom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Rehoboam’s reign, along with all his accomplishments, are recorded in the historical records of the kings of Judah, are they not?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was continual conflict between Rehoboam and Jeroboam throughout their entire reigns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rehoboam died and was buried with his ancestors in the City of David. His mother’s name was Naamah, an Ammonite woman. His son Abijam succeeded him as king.</span></p>






</body></html>