<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Timothy Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sk4fuj.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0c490b6b-1b56-be3d-436c-345b594a9b73" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Timothy Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not harshly rebuke an older man, but appeal to him respectfully as you would a father. Treat younger men as brothers, with kindness and understanding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Treat older women as you would your own mothers, and younger women as your sisters, with absolute purity and respect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Respect and provide for those widows who are truly in need and have no other means of support.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to practice godliness within their own household and to repay their parents, for this is pleasing and acceptable in the sight of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A true widow, who is left alone and without support, places her trust in God and devotes herself to earnest prayers and petitions both day and night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the woman who indulges in self-gratification and lives for pleasure is spiritually dead, even while she is physically alive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instruct them in these matters, so that they may live without fault or reproach.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if anyone does not provide for their own relatives, and especially for their immediate family, they have rejected the faith and are worse than someone who does not believe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not enroll a widow in the official list unless she is at least sixty years old and has been faithful to one husband.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She should be well respected for her good deeds, such as raising children, showing hospitality to strangers, serving fellow believers humbly, helping those in distress, and consistently pursuing every kind of good work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, do not enroll younger widows, for when their natural desires lead them away from their devotion to Christ, they will seek to marry again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are under condemnation because they have abandoned their initial commitment to faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moreover, they become accustomed to idleness, going from house to house without purpose. Not only are they idle, but they also become gossips and meddlers, talking about matters that are none of their concern.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I desire that the younger women marry, have children, manage their households well, and avoid giving any opportunity for the adversary to bring criticism or disgrace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some have already strayed and followed Satan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any man or woman who believes has widows in their care, they should provide for them and not burden the church, so that the church can assist those who are truly in need as widows.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elders who lead effectively should be considered deserving of special respect and recognition, particularly those who work diligently in teaching and instructing from the Scriptures.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the Scripture says, "Do not muzzle an ox while it is treading out the grain." And, "The worker deserves his wages."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not accept an accusation against an elder unless it is supported by two or three witnesses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Publicly correct those who commit sin, so that the rest may also be warned and deterred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I solemnly urge you before God, the Lord Jesus Christ, and the chosen angels, to uphold these instructions without showing favoritism or acting out of partiality in any way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not hastily appoint anyone to a position of responsibility, nor share in the sins of others. Maintain your own integrity and purity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Stop drinking only water, but instead take a small amount of wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent ailments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sins of some people are evident and obvious, leading directly to judgment, while the sins of others become known only later, following them to judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, the good deeds of some people are evident and recognized beforehand, while those whose actions are not immediately apparent cannot remain hidden forever.</span></p>






</body></html>