<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 47</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sk4ry6.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0bcd532b-2cda-f096-6a53-bb4b60a1f4dd" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 47</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Descend and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; take your place on the ground, for there is no throne for you, O daughter of the Chaldeans. You will no longer be called delicate and pampered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take the millstones and grind grain into flour. Remove your veil, strip off your garments, bare your legs, and wade through the rivers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your disgrace will be exposed, and your shame will be revealed. I will bring retribution, and I will not deal with you as a mere human would.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for our Redeemer, the LORD Almighty is His name, the Holy One of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remain silent and retreat into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans, for you will no longer be called the queen of kingdoms.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I was angry with my people; I defiled my inheritance and handed them over to you. Yet you showed them no compassion; you placed a heavy yoke upon the elderly, burdening them severely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You declared, "I will be a queen forever," and so you did not take these matters to heart or consider the consequences that would follow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen now to this, you who indulge in luxury and live in careless ease, you who say in your heart, "I am supreme, and there is no one else like me; I will never experience widowhood or the loss of children."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet these two things will happen to you suddenly, in a single day: the loss of your children and widowhood. They will come upon you in full measure because of the vast number of your sorceries and the great abundance of your enchantments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have placed your confidence in your wickedness, thinking, "No one sees me." Your wisdom and knowledge have led you astray, and you have said in your heart, "I am supreme; there is no one else besides me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, disaster will come upon you, and you will not know its origin; calamity will befall you, and you will not be able to avert it. Sudden devastation will overtake you, and you will not foresee it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, stand firm with your enchantments and the multitude of your sorceries, in which you have toiled since your youth. Perhaps you will gain some advantage; perhaps you might succeed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have grown weary from the abundance of your advisors. Now, let the astrologers, the stargazers, and those who predict by the months rise up and save you from the things that are about to come upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, they will be like dry straw; the fire will consume them completely. They will not be able to save themselves from the power of the flames. There will be no glowing ember left to warm themselves by, nor any fire to sit beside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is how it will be for those with whom you have worked, even your trading partners from your earliest days: each will go their own way, and no one will come to your rescue.</span></p>






</body></html>