<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sk5wg3.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7a379273-aace-21cd-dd8d-b550e654ba6e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David built houses for himself in the city of David. He also prepared a place for the ark of God and set up a tent to house it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David declared, "No one should carry the ark of God except the Levites, for the Lord has chosen them to carry the ark of God and to serve Him forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David assembled all of Israel in Jerusalem to bring the ark of the LORD to the place he had prepared for it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David gathered together the descendants of Aaron and the Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Kohath: Uriel was the leader, and his relatives numbered one hundred and twenty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Merari, Asaiah was the leader, along with his relatives, numbering two hundred and twenty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Gershom: Joel was the leader, and his relatives numbered one hundred and thirty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Elizaphan, Shemaiah was the leader, and his relatives numbered two hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Hebron: Eliel was the leader, and his relatives numbered eighty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Uzziel, Amminadab was the leader, and his relatives numbered one hundred and twelve.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David summoned Zadok and Abiathar, the priests, along with the Levites—Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to them, "You are the leaders of the Levite families. Consecrate yourselves, both you and your fellow Levites, so that you may bring up the ark of the LORD, the God of Israel, to the place I have prepared for it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you did not follow the proper procedures from the beginning, the LORD our God brought judgment upon us, for we did not seek Him in the manner He required.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the priests and the Levites purified themselves in order to carry the ark of the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites carried the ark of God on their shoulders using the poles, just as Moses had commanded in accordance with the instruction of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David instructed the leaders of the Levites to assign their fellow Levites as musicians, to play instruments of music—harps, lyres, and cymbals—raising their voices joyfully in song.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the Levites designated Heman, the son of Joel; and from his relatives, Asaph, the son of Berechiah; and from the sons of Merari, their relatives, Ethan, the son of Kushaiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Along with them were their fellow workers of the second rank: Zechariah, Ben, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Elipheleh, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel, who served as gatekeepers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the singers—Heman, Asaph, and Ethan—were assigned to play bronze cymbals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah were to play the psalteries, tuned to the high-pitched Alamoth style.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Mattithiah, Elipheleh, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, Jeiel, and Azaziah were appointed to play harps, using the Sheminith tuning, to lead with skill and excellence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Chenaniah, the leader of the Levites, was in charge of the music. He provided instruction in singing because he was highly skilled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Berechiah and Elkanah served as guardians of the ark.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shebaniah, Jehoshaphat, Nethaneel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, sounded the trumpets before the ark of God. Obed-edom and Jehiah were stationed as gatekeepers for the ark.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David, along with the elders of Israel and the commanders of thousands, went to bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD from the house of Obed-edom with great rejoicing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When God provided assistance to the Levites who were carrying the ark of the LORD’s covenant, they sacrificed seven bulls and seven rams.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David was dressed in a robe made of fine linen, as were all the Levites who carried the ark, the singers, and Chenaniah, the leader of the music, along with the singers. David also wore a linen ephod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So all of Israel carried up the ark of the covenant of the LORD with loud rejoicing, accompanied by the sound of horns, trumpets, and cymbals, and with music from stringed instruments like harps and lyres.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the ark of the covenant of the LORD arrived at the city of David, Michal, the daughter of Saul, looked out of a window and saw King David leaping and dancing with joy. And in her heart, she held him in contempt.</span></p>






</body></html>