<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sk7c7j.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ac8e3356-9d7d-06e3-a449-16557834a401" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites committed evil in the eyes of the LORD, and as a result, the LORD handed them over to the power of Midian for seven years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The power of Midian overwhelmed Israel, and because of the Midianites, the Israelites were forced to take refuge in the mountain dens, caves, and fortified strongholds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened that whenever Israel planted their crops, the Midianites, the Amalekites, and the people from the east would rise up and invade their land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They set up camp against them and devastated the land's produce all the way to Gaza, leaving no food supply for Israel—no sheep, no cattle, and no donkeys.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they advanced with their livestock and their tents, and they came in such vast numbers that they were like a swarm of locusts; both they and their camels were beyond counting. They entered the land with the intent to devastate it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Israel were brought to extreme hardship because of the Midianites, and in their distress, the Israelites cried out to the LORD for help.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened that when the Israelites cried out to the LORD because of the oppression of the Midianites,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD sent a prophet to the people of Israel, who said to them, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: I brought you up from Egypt and delivered you from the house of slavery."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I rescued you from the power of the Egyptians and from the grasp of all who oppressed you. I drove them out before you and gave you their land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I said to you, "I am the LORD your God. Do not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you now live." But you have not listened to my command.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then an angel of the LORD appeared and sat beneath the oak tree in Ophrah, which belonged to Joash the Abiezrite. His son Gideon was threshing wheat in the winepress, concealing it from the Midianites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel of the LORD appeared to him and said, "The LORD is with you, you courageous and mighty man."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon replied, "Please, my lord, if the LORD is truly with us, why has all this happened to us? Where are all the miracles our ancestors told us about when they said, 'Did not the LORD bring us up out of Egypt?' But now the LORD has abandoned us and handed us over to the power of the Midianites."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD turned to him and said, "Go with the strength you have, and you will rescue Israel from the power of the Midianites. Am I not the one sending you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to him, "Oh my Lord, how can I deliver Israel? Look, my family is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the least significant in my father's household."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to him, "I will certainly be with you, and you will strike down the Midianites as if they were a single man."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to him, "If I have now found favor in your sight, then give me a sign that it is truly you speaking with me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Please do not leave this place, I beg you, until I return to you. I will bring my offering and present it before you. And he replied, "I will wait here until you come back."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon went inside and prepared a young goat, along with unleavened bread made from an ephah of flour. He placed the meat in a basket and the broth in a pot, then brought it out to the angel under the oak tree and presented it to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel of God said to him, "Take the meat and the unleavened bread, and place them on this rock, then pour out the broth." And he did as he was told.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the angel of the Lord extended the tip of the staff that was in his hand and touched the meat and the unleavened bread. Immediately, fire flared up from the rock and consumed the meat and the unleavened bread. After this, the angel of the Lord vanished from his sight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Gideon realized that he was speaking to an angel of the LORD, he exclaimed, "Oh no, Sovereign LORD! I am doomed, for I have seen an angel of the LORD face to face!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to him, "Peace be with you; do not be afraid, for you will not die."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Gideon built an altar there to the LORD and named it *The LORD Is Peace*. To this day, it remains in Ophrah, the town of the Abiezrites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That very night, the LORD said to him, "Take your father’s young bull, the second bull that is seven years old, and tear down the altar of Baal that belongs to your father. Then cut down the Asherah pole that stands beside it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Construct an altar to the LORD your God on the top of this rock, in the designated place. Then take the second bull and offer it as a burnt offering, using the wood from the Asherah pole that you have cut down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon took ten of his servants and did as the LORD had instructed him. However, because he was afraid of his father’s household and the men of the town, he could not carry out the task during the day. So he did it at night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the men of the city got up early in the morning, they saw that the altar of Baal had been torn down, the Asherah pole beside it had been cut down, and the second bull had been offered as a sacrifice on the newly built altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to one another, "Who has done this?" And after they investigated and inquired, they concluded, "Gideon, the son of Joash, has done this."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the men of the city said to Joash, "Bring out your son so that he may be put to death, for he has torn down the altar of Baal and cut down the sacred pole that stood beside it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joash said to all those who opposed him, "Are you going to defend Baal? Are you trying to save him? Whoever speaks up for him will be put to death by morning! If Baal is truly a god, let him defend himself, since someone has torn down his altar."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, on that day, they named him Jerubbaal, saying, "Let Baal contend with him, because he has torn down his altar."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the Midianites, the Amalekites, and the people from the east joined forces, crossed over, and set up their camp in the Valley of Jezreel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Spirit of the LORD came powerfully upon Gideon, and he sounded the trumpet, summoning the clan of Abiezer to follow him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He sent messengers throughout all of Manasseh, and they rallied to join him. He also sent messengers to Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali, and they came up to meet him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon said to God, "If you truly intend to save Israel through me, as you have declared,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, I will place a wool fleece on the threshing floor. If there is dew only on the fleece and the ground around it remains dry, then I will know that you will deliver Israel through me, as you have promised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened just as he had asked: he got up early the next morning, gathered the fleece tightly, and squeezed the dew out of it, filling a bowl with water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon said to God, "Please do not be angry with me, but allow me to speak just one more time. Let me test you once more with the fleece: this time, let the fleece alone be dry, while the ground around it is covered with dew."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That night, God did exactly as Gideon had asked: the fleece alone was dry, while dew covered the entire ground.</span></p>






</body></html>