<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\skd2dx.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6fe17be4-6bdd-49c0-e50f-295f9595c9e7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that time, when Israel had no king, a certain Levite was living as a foreigner in the remote area of the hill country of Ephraim. He took for himself a concubine from Bethlehem in Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his concubine was unfaithful to him and left him, returning to her father’s house in Bethlehem of Judah, where she stayed for four full months.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her husband got up and followed her, intending to speak kindly to her and persuade her to return. He took his servant and two donkeys with him. When they arrived, she brought him into her father’s house. Upon seeing him, the young woman’s father was delighted and welcomed him warmly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the young woman’s father, who was also his father-in-law, urged him to stay, so he remained with him for three days. During that time, they ate, drank, and stayed there together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fourth day, they got up early in the morning, and the man prepared to leave. The young woman’s father said to his son-in-law, "Strengthen yourself with a bit of food before you go on your way."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sat down and ate and drank together, for the young woman’s father had said to the man, “Please, be content to stay the night, and let your heart be glad.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the man got up to leave, his father-in-law strongly urged him to stay, so he remained there for another night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He got up early on the fifth morning to leave, but the young woman’s father said, “Please, strengthen yourself with some food.” So they lingered until the afternoon, and both of them ate together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the man got up to leave, along with his concubine and his servant, his father-in-law, the young woman’s father, said to him, “Look, the day is nearly over, and evening is approaching. Please stay the night. See, the day is almost gone—spend the night here so your heart may be refreshed. Then you can rise early tomorrow and continue your journey home.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the man refused to stay that night. Instead, he got up and left, traveling until he reached Jebus, which is now called Jerusalem. He had with him two saddled donkeys, and his concubine was also accompanying him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they approached Jebus, the day was nearly over. The servant said to his master, “Please, let us stop and spend the night in this city of the Jebusites.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his master replied to him, "We will not turn aside here into the city of foreigners, who are not part of the people of Israel; we will continue on to Gibeah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to his servant, "Come, let us go over to one of these places to spend the night, either in Gibeah or in Ramah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They continued on their journey, and as they traveled, the sun set while they were near Gibeah, a town belonging to the tribe of Benjamin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They turned aside there to enter and spend the night in Gibeah. When they went in, the man sat down in the city square, but no one offered to take them into their home for lodging.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And behold, an old man came from his work in the field at evening. He was from the hill country of Ephraim but was staying in Gibeah, though the people of that place were Benjamites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he looked up, he noticed a traveler in the city street. The old man asked, "Where are you going, and where have you come from?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to him, "We are traveling from Bethlehem in Judah toward the region of Mount Ephraim. That is where I am from. I went to Bethlehem in Judah, but now I am on my way to the house of the LORD. Yet, there is no one who has offered to take me into their home."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have both straw and fodder for our donkeys, and there is bread and wine for me, for your servant, and for the young man who is with your servants. We lack nothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The elderly man said, "May peace be with you. Let me take care of all your needs, but please do not spend the night in the street."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he took him into his house and provided fodder for the donkeys. They washed their feet, and then they ate and drank.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they were enjoying themselves and their hearts were filled with joy, suddenly, the men of the city—wicked and worthless individuals—surrounded the house and began pounding on the door. They called out to the owner of the house, the old man, and demanded, "Bring out the man who came to your house, so that we can have sex with him!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man, the owner of the house, went out to them and said, “No, my brothers, please, I beg you, do not act so wickedly. Since this man has come under my roof as my guest, do not commit such a disgraceful act.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Look, here is my daughter, who is a virgin, and his concubine. I will bring them out to you now. Do with them as you see fit, but do not commit such a disgraceful act against this man."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the men refused to listen to him. So the man took his concubine and brought her out to them. They seized her and subjected her to abuse throughout the night until morning. At daybreak, they finally released her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At daybreak, the woman came and collapsed at the entrance of the man’s house where her master was, remaining there until the light of morning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her husband rose early in the morning, opened the doors of the house, and stepped outside to continue on his journey. But there, at the entrance of the house, he found his concubine lying on the ground, fallen at the doorway, with her hands resting on the threshold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to her, "Get up, and let us go." But there was no response. So the man lifted her onto the donkey, and he set out and returned to his home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrived at his house, he took a knife, seized his concubine, and cut her body—along with her bones—into twelve pieces. He then sent these pieces throughout all the territories of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so it happened that everyone who witnessed it said, "Nothing like this has ever been done or seen from the day the Israelites came out of the land of Egypt until now. Think carefully about it, seek counsel, and share your thoughts."</span></p>






</body></html>