<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\skjedt.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:036c6e67-1d44-7569-d5fe-ee699be4b145" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the end of every seven years, you must declare a release.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning the cancellation of debts: Every creditor who has loaned something to a neighbor must release the debt; they must not demand repayment from their neighbor or their relative, because it is proclaimed as the Lord's time of release.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You may demand repayment from a foreigner, but whatever is owed to you by your fellow Israelite, you must forgive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Except when there are no poor among you, for the LORD will abundantly bless you in the land that the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance to possess.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Only if you diligently listen to the voice of the LORD your God, and faithfully carry out all these commandments that I am giving you today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD your God blesses you, just as He promised you: you will lend to many nations, but you will not need to borrow; you will rule over many nations, but they will not rule over you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If there is a poor person among you, one of your fellow Israelites in any of the towns within the land that the LORD your God is giving you, you must not harden your heart or close your hand against your poor brother.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must generously open your hand to him and willingly lend him enough to meet his need, whatever he may lack.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful that no wicked thought arises in your heart, thinking, "The seventh year, the year of release, is near," and you look with resentment toward your poor brother and refuse to give him anything. If he then cries out to the Lord against you, it will be counted as sin against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must certainly give to him, and do not feel reluctant or resentful when you do so, because for this very reason the LORD your God will bless you in all your work and in everything you undertake.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The poor will always exist in the land; therefore, I command you, saying, "You must open your hand generously to your brother, to those who are poor and in need within your land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If your fellow Hebrew, whether a man or a woman, is sold to you and serves you for six years, then in the seventh year you must set them free and release them from your service.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you set him free, you must not send him away empty-handed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must generously provide for him from your flock, from your threshing floor, and from your winepress. Give to him from what the LORD your God has blessed you with.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God set you free. That is why I am commanding you to do this today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If he says to you, "I do not want to leave you," because he loves you and your household and is content with you,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall take an awl and pierce it through his ear into the door, and he will be your servant permanently. You shall do the same for your female servant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You should not consider it a hardship when you set him free, for he has served you as a hired worker would, for six years—worth twice the service of a hired hand. And the LORD your God will bless you in everything you do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must set apart for the LORD your God every firstborn male from your cattle and your flock. You are not to use the firstborn of your ox for work, nor shear the firstborn of your sheep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must eat it in the presence of the LORD your God each year at the place the LORD will choose, both you and your household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the animal has any defect—such as being lame, blind, or having any other flaw—you must not offer it as a sacrifice to the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must eat it within your community; both the ceremonially unclean and the clean may eat it together, just as they would eat the meat of a gazelle or a deer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not consume the blood; instead, you are to pour it out on the ground like water.</span></p>






</body></html>