<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Micah Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sknnvt.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:97ade2c7-f85d-5a87-8db7-c48e33b09495" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Micah Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it is for me! I feel like someone who has gone to gather the summer fruit or to pick the leftover grapes after the harvest—there is no cluster of grapes to eat, no ripe fruit to enjoy. My soul longs for the first ripe figs, but they are nowhere to be found.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The righteous person has vanished from the earth; there is no one upright among humanity. Everyone lies in ambush to shed blood; each one hunts their own brother with a trap.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They eagerly pursue evil with both hands. The ruler demands bribes, and the judge seeks payment for his decisions. The powerful person openly expresses their wicked desires, and together they weave their schemes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even the best among them is like a thornbush, and the most upright is sharper than a hedge of thorns. The day of your watchmen, the time of your reckoning, has come; now their confusion will be complete.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not place your trust in a friend, nor rely on a close companion. Guard the words of your mouth even from the one who shares your most intimate confidence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the son shows disrespect to his father, the daughter rebels against her mother, the daughter-in-law opposes her mother-in-law; a person's enemies are those of their own household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will turn my attention to the LORD; I will wait expectantly for the God who saves me. My God will listen to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not rejoice over me, my enemy; though I fall, I will rise again; though I dwell in darkness, the LORD will be my light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will endure the Lord's anger, for I have sinned against him, until he takes up my case and upholds my cause. He will bring me out into the light, and I will witness his justice and righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then my enemy will see it, and shame will overwhelm her who taunted me, saying, “Where is the LORD your God?” My eyes will witness her downfall; now she will be trampled like mud in the streets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the day when your walls are to be rebuilt, on that very day the decree of destruction will be annulled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, they will come to you from Assyria, from the fortified cities, and from the strongholds, from the river to the farthest sea, and from mountain to mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land will become desolate because of those who live in it, as a result of their actions and their deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Care for your people with your shepherd's staff, the flock that is your own possession, who live isolated in the forest, in the fertile land of Carmel. Let them graze in Bashan and Gilead, as they did in days gone by.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In keeping with the time of your departure from the land of Egypt, I will reveal to him extraordinary and wondrous deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The nations will see and be utterly dismayed at all their power; they will cover their mouths in silence, and their ears will become deaf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will crawl in the dust like a snake, they will emerge from their hiding places like worms from the ground. They will tremble in fear before the LORD our God and will be filled with dread because of you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who is a God like you, who forgives wrongdoing and overlooks the rebellion of the remnant of his chosen people? He does not hold onto his anger forever, for he takes pleasure in showing mercy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will once again show us compassion; he will overcome our wrongdoings, and you will cast all our sins into the deepest part of the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will fulfill your faithfulness to Jacob and your steadfast love to Abraham, as you promised with an oath to our ancestors in ancient times.</span></p>






</body></html>