<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 28</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\skov5h.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a4a43e69-c80b-d64b-9ae7-73f94df727a8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 28</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Bring your brother Aaron and his sons—Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar—from among the Israelites to serve me as priests. They are to fulfill the duties of the priesthood, representing the people before me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to make sacred garments for your brother Aaron, for honor and splendor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to speak to all those who are skilled and wise, whom I have endowed with a spirit of wisdom, so that they may make Aaron’s garments to set him apart for consecration, enabling him to serve me in the role of priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the sacred garments they are to make: a breastpiece, an ephod, a robe, an embroidered tunic, a turban, and a sash. They shall create these holy garments for your brother Aaron and his sons, so that they may serve me as priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall gather gold, along with blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and fine linen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall craft the ephod using gold, along with blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and finely twisted linen, skillfully woven together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The garment shall have its two shoulder pieces attached at their edges, and in this way, it shall be fastened together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The intricately woven band of the ephod, which is attached to it, must be made of the same materials and craftsmanship: gold, blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, along with finely twisted linen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall take two onyx stones and engrave on them the names of the sons of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Engrave six of their names on one stone, and the remaining six names on the other stone, arranged in the order of their birth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall engrave the two stones with the names of the sons of Israel, as a skilled engraver carves a seal. You shall set them in gold filigree settings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall place the two stones on the shoulder pieces of the ephod as memorial stones for the Israelites. Aaron will carry their names before the LORD on his two shoulders as a reminder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make settings of gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you shall make two chains of pure gold, crafted in a twisted, cord-like design. Attach these twisted chains to the settings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall craft the breastplate of judgment with skillful artistry, following the same design as the ephod. Make it using gold, along with blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and finely woven linen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The object shall be square and folded double; its length shall be one span, and its width shall also be one span.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall arrange within it mountings of stones, in four rows: the first row shall be a carnelian, a topaz, and an emerald—this is the first row.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The second row shall consist of an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The third row shall have a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fourth row shall have a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper. These stones are to be mounted in gold settings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The stones shall bear the names of the twelve tribes of Israel, each one engraved like a seal with the name of a tribe. There will be twelve stones in total, each corresponding to one of the tribes, with their names inscribed upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall attach to the breastplate braided chains made of pure gold, crafted with skill and fastened securely at the ends.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make two gold rings and attach them to the two ends of the breastplate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall place the two braided chains of gold into the two rings that are on the edges of the breastplate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall attach the other two ends of the two braided chains to the two settings and secure them to the shoulder pieces of the ephod at the front.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make two rings of gold and attach them to the two ends of the breastpiece, on its edge that faces toward the inner side of the ephod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall also make two more rings of gold and attach them to the two sides of the ephod, on its underside, near the front, opposite the other joining, above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall attach the breastpiece by its rings to the rings of the ephod using a cord of blue, so that it rests securely above the skillfully woven band of the ephod. This will ensure that the breastpiece remains firmly in place and does not become detached from the ephod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron shall carry the names of the Israelites on the breastpiece of judgment over his heart whenever he enters the holy place, as a continual reminder before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to place the Urim and the Thummim inside the breastpiece of judgment, and they will rest over Aaron’s heart whenever he enters the presence of the LORD. In this way, Aaron will continually carry the responsibility for making decisions on behalf of the Israelites before the LORD, bearing their judgment upon his heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make the robe of the ephod entirely of blue cloth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There shall be an opening at the top of it, in the center, with a woven edge surrounding the opening, like the collar of a coat of mail, so that it does not tear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And along the lower edge of the robe, you shall make pomegranates of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, all around the hem. Between these pomegranates, you shall place golden bells, spaced evenly around the entire hem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A golden bell and a pomegranate, alternating with another golden bell and a pomegranate, were to be placed all around the hem of the robe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron shall wear it when he performs his priestly duties, and its sound will be heard when he enters the holy place before the LORD and when he leaves, so that he does not die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make a plate of pure gold and engrave on it, as one engraves a seal, the words: "HOLINESS TO THE LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall attach it to a blue cord, so that it may be fastened to the turban; it is to be placed on the front of the turban.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The plate shall be placed on Aaron’s forehead, so that Aaron may bear the guilt associated with the sacred offerings that the Israelites consecrate in all their holy gifts. It shall remain on his forehead continually, so that they may be accepted before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall skillfully craft the tunic from fine linen, and you shall fashion the turban from fine linen as well. Additionally, you shall make the sash with intricate embroidery.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For Aaron's sons, you shall make tunics, and you shall also make sashes for them, and you shall fashion headpieces for them, for dignity and splendor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall place these garments on Aaron, your brother, and on his sons as well. Then you shall anoint them, set them apart, and consecrate them, so that they may serve me in the role of priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make linen undergarments for them to cover their bare skin; these garments shall extend from the waist down to the thighs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These garments shall be worn by Aaron and his sons whenever they enter the tent of meeting or approach the altar to serve in the holy place, so that they do not incur guilt and die. This is to be a permanent regulation for him and his descendants after him.</span></p>






</body></html>