<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\skqpru.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:55eab55b-c227-a26f-2ff7-8a22821a4646" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the LORD your God brings you into the land you are about to enter and take possession of, and He drives out before you many nations—the Hittites, Girgashites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites—seven nations larger and stronger than you,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the LORD your God delivers them into your hands, you must strike them down and completely destroy them. You are not to make any treaty with them or show them any mercy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not intermarry with them. Do not give your daughter in marriage to their son, nor take their daughter as a wife for your son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they will lead your children away from following me, causing them to serve other gods. As a result, the LORD’s anger will burn against you, and He will swiftly destroy you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is how you must deal with them: you shall demolish their altars, smash their sacred pillars, cut down their Asherah poles, and burn their carved idols in the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you are a people set apart for the LORD your God. The LORD your God has chosen you to be his treasured possession, distinct from all the other peoples on the face of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD did not choose you and set his affection on you because you were more numerous than other peoples—for in fact, you were the smallest of all nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because the LORD loved you and remained faithful to the oath He swore to your ancestors, He brought you out with great power and rescued you from the house of slavery, freeing you from the grasp of Pharaoh, king of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Understand this: the LORD your God is indeed God—the faithful and true God. He maintains His covenant and shows steadfast love to those who love Him and keep His commandments, extending His faithfulness to a thousand generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He deals with those who oppose him directly, ensuring their destruction; he will not delay in responding to those who hate him, but will confront them and repay them without hesitation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must carefully observe the commands, the statutes, and the ordinances that I am giving you today, and faithfully carry them out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, it will come to pass that if you listen to these decrees, observe them, and carry them out, the LORD your God will remain faithful to the covenant and the steadfast love He promised with an oath to your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He will love you, bless you, and cause you to increase in number. He will also bless the children of your womb and the produce of your land—your grain, your wine, and your olive oil—as well as the offspring of your cattle and the flocks of your sheep, in the land He promised with an oath to your ancestors to give to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be blessed more than all other people: there will be no one among you, male or female, who is unable to have children, nor will any of your livestock be barren.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will remove all illness from you and will not inflict upon you any of the severe diseases of Egypt, which you have known. Instead, He will bring them upon all who hate you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must completely destroy all the people whom the LORD your God hands over to you. Do not show them any mercy, nor serve their gods, for doing so would become a trap for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you say in your heart, "These nations are greater than I am; how can I drive them out?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not fear them, but remember clearly what the LORD your God did to Pharaoh and all of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The great trials that your eyes witnessed, the signs, the wonders, the mighty hand, and the outstretched arm by which the LORD your God brought you out—in the same way, the LORD your God will deal with all the peoples you fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the LORD your God will unleash the hornet against them, until those who remain and try to hide from you are completely destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be afraid of them, for the LORD your God is with you—a mighty and awe-inspiring God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD your God will drive out those nations before you gradually; you will not be able to destroy them all at once, or else the wild animals would multiply and become too numerous for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the LORD your God will hand them over to you and will utterly defeat them with great power until they are completely destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will hand over their kings to you, and you will wipe out their names from existence. No one will be able to resist you until you have completely destroyed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must burn the carved images of their gods with fire. Do not covet the silver or gold that is on them, nor take it for yourself, or you will be ensnared by it, for it is detestable to the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not bring anything detestable into your house, or you will become as cursed as that thing. Instead, you must completely reject it and utterly despise it, for it is accursed.</span></p>






</body></html>