<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Job Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sksiul.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c716c3af-17b2-8ec9-d9c9-c0b5afeebe34" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Job Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a man in the land of Uz named Job. He was a man of integrity and moral uprightness, one who revered God and turned away from evil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he became the father of seven sons and three daughters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His wealth included seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred pairs of oxen, five hundred female donkeys, and a very large household. As a result, this man was the greatest of all the people in the east.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His sons would take turns hosting feasts at their homes, each on his designated day. They would send invitations to their three sisters to join them in eating and drinking together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so it was, when the days of their feasting had come to an end, that Job would send for his children and consecrate them. He would rise early in the morning and offer burnt offerings, one for each of them, because Job thought, "Perhaps my children have sinned and cursed God in their hearts." This was Job's regular practice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One day, the heavenly beings came to stand before the LORD, and Satan also appeared among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Satan, "Where have you come from?" Satan replied to the LORD, "From roaming throughout the earth, going back and forth across it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Satan, "Have you taken notice of my servant Job? There is no one like him on the earth—a man of integrity and uprightness, who fears God and turns away from evil."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Satan replied to the LORD, saying, "Does Job fear God for no reason at all?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have you not placed a protective barrier around him, his household, and all that he possesses on every side? You have blessed the labor of his hands, and his wealth has greatly increased in the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But now, stretch out your hand and strike everything he possesses, and he will surely curse you to your face.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Satan, "Everything he has is now in your control; only do not lay a hand on him personally." Then Satan departed from the presence of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One day, his sons and daughters were gathered at the house of their oldest brother, eating and drinking wine together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A messenger came to Job and said, "The oxen were plowing, and the donkeys were grazing nearby."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Sabeans attacked them, seized their possessions, and killed the servants with the sword. I am the only one who escaped to bring you this news.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While he was still speaking, another messenger arrived and said, "The fire of God has fallen from the sky and has burned up the flocks, the servants, and completely destroyed them. I am the only one who escaped to tell you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While he was still speaking, another messenger arrived and said, "The Chaldeans formed three raiding parties, attacked the camels, and took them away. They also killed the servants with the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While he was still speaking, another messenger arrived and said, "Your sons and daughters were feasting and drinking wine at their oldest brother's house."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Suddenly, a powerful wind swept in from the wilderness, striking the four corners of the house. The house collapsed on the young men, and they died. I alone have escaped to tell you this.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Job stood up, tore his robe, shaved his head, and fell to the ground in worship.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "I was born naked from my mother’s womb, and naked I will return. The LORD gave, and the LORD has taken away. May the name of the LORD be praised."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Throughout all of this, Job did not sin, nor did he accuse God of wrongdoing.</span></p>






</body></html>