<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Daniel Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sksqbi.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:92d2cb55-132e-6ff2-997f-da484e74bc66" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Daniel Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Belshazzar hosted a grand banquet for a thousand of his nobles and drank wine in their presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While Belshazzar was drinking wine, he gave orders to bring the gold and silver vessels that his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the temple in Jerusalem. He wanted the king, his nobles, his wives, and his concubines to drink from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they brought out the gold vessels that had been taken from the temple of the house of God in Jerusalem. The king, along with his officials, his wives, and his concubines, drank wine from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They drank wine and gave praise to the gods made of gold, silver, bronze, iron, wood, and stone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that very moment, the fingers of a human hand appeared and began writing on the plaster of the wall, near the lampstand in the king’s palace. The king saw the part of the hand as it wrote.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king's expression changed, and his thoughts deeply disturbed him, causing his body to tremble so severely that his hips gave way, and his knees knocked together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king urgently called for the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and the diviners to be brought before him. Then the king addressed the wise men of Babylon, saying, "Whoever can read this inscription and explain its meaning to me will be dressed in royal purple, wear a gold chain around his neck, and be appointed as the third highest ruler in the kingdom."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the king’s wise men came in, but they were unable to read the writing or explain its meaning to the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Belshazzar became deeply alarmed, and his face grew pale with fear. His nobles were bewildered and filled with dread.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The queen, having heard the words of the king and his nobles, entered the banquet hall. She addressed the king, saying, "O king, may you live forever! Do not let your thoughts trouble you, nor let your expression be troubled."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There is a man in your kingdom who possesses the spirit of the holy gods. In the days of your father, he was found to have insight, understanding, and wisdom like that of the gods. King Nebuchadnezzar, your father—yes, your father the king—appointed him as the chief over the magicians, enchanters, astrologers, and diviners.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar, was found to possess an extraordinary spirit, along with knowledge, understanding, the ability to interpret dreams, explain difficult matters, and resolve perplexing questions, let Daniel now be summoned, and he will reveal the interpretation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Daniel was brought before the king. The king spoke and said to him, "Are you Daniel, one of the exiles from Judah, whom my father the king brought from the land of Judah?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have heard about you, that the spirit of the divine is within you, and that insight, understanding, and extraordinary wisdom are found in you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now the wise men and the astrologers have been brought before me so that they might read this inscription and explain its meaning to me. Yet they were unable to reveal the interpretation of the matter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have heard about you, that you are able to interpret mysteries and resolve difficult questions. Now, if you can read this writing and make its meaning known to me, you will be clothed in royal purple, wear a gold chain around your neck, and be appointed as the third highest ruler in the kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Daniel responded to the king, saying, "Keep your gifts for yourself, and give your rewards to someone else. Nevertheless, I will read the writing for the king and explain its meaning to him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O king, the Most High God granted your father Nebuchadnezzar a kingdom, along with greatness, splendor, and honor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the supreme authority and greatness that he bestowed upon him, all peoples, nations, and languages were filled with awe and dread in his presence. He had the power to execute or spare lives as he chose, to elevate or depose individuals according to his will.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when he became arrogant and his spirit grew stubborn with pride, he was removed from his royal throne, and his honor was stripped away from him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was driven away from human society, and his mind became like that of an animal. He lived among the wild donkeys, eating grass like cattle, and his body was drenched with the dew of heaven. This continued until he came to understand that the Most High God is sovereign over the kingdoms of humanity and appoints over them anyone He chooses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you, his son, O Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, even though you knew all these things.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you have exalted yourself against the Lord of heaven. They brought before you the vessels from His temple, and you, along with your nobles, your wives, and your concubines, drank wine from them. You praised the gods of silver, gold, bronze, iron, wood, and stone—gods that cannot see, hear, or understand. Yet you have not honored the God who holds your very breath in His hand and to whom all your ways belong.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the hand appeared and wrote this message.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the inscription that was written: "MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the meaning of the message: MENE; God has counted the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">TEKEL; You have been weighed on the scales and found deficient.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">PERES; Your kingdom has been divided and handed over to the Medes and Persians.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Belshazzar gave the order, and they dressed Daniel in a robe of scarlet, placed a gold chain around his neck, and issued a proclamation declaring that he would be the third highest ruler in the kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That very night, Belshazzar, the king of the Chaldeans, was killed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Darius the Mede received the kingdom when he was approximately sixty-two years old.</span></p>






</body></html>