<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sktdyx.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:31e89005-b056-9195-b539-041ffb942511" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the laws and regulations that you are to present to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you purchase a Hebrew servant, he shall serve for six years, and in the seventh year, he shall be set free without any payment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If he arrived alone, he shall leave alone; if he was married when he came, then his wife shall leave with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If his master has given him a wife, and she has borne him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall belong to her master, and he shall leave alone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if the servant clearly declares, "I love my master, my wife, and my children; I do not wish to go free,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then his master shall bring him before the judges. He shall also bring him to the door or to the doorpost, and his master shall pierce his ear with an awl. After this, he shall serve his master for life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man sells his daughter as a servant, she is not to be released in the same way as male servants are.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the woman does not please the man who has pledged to marry her, then he must allow her to be redeemed. He does not have the right to sell her to a foreign people, because he has acted deceitfully toward her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If he has arranged for her to be engaged to his son, he must treat her according to the rights and customs due to a daughter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man takes another wife, he must not reduce the first wife's provisions of food, clothing, or marital rights.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If he fails to fulfill these three obligations toward her, then she shall be released without any payment required.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever strikes a person, causing their death, must certainly be executed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone does not act with premeditation but God allows the situation to fall into their hands, then I will designate a place for them to flee for safety.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if someone deliberately and deceitfully attacks their neighbor with the intent to kill them, you must remove that person even from my altar, so that they may be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who strikes their father or mother must certainly be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who kidnaps a person and sells them, or is found holding them captive, must certainly be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who curses their father or mother must certainly be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If two men fight and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fist, and the injured man does not die but is confined to bed,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the injured person gets up again and is able to walk around with the help of a cane, then the one who struck him shall be cleared of further punishment. However, the offender must compensate for the injured person’s lost time and ensure that he receives full medical care for his recovery.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone strikes their male or female servant with a rod, and the servant dies as a result of the beating, the offender must certainly be held accountable and face punishment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the servant survives for a day or two, the master shall not be held accountable, because the servant is considered his property.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If two men are fighting and one of them strikes a pregnant woman, causing her to miscarry but no further harm follows, the offender must be punished as the woman’s husband demands, and he must pay whatever compensation the judges determine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any serious harm results, then you must give a life in exchange for a life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a hand for a hand, a foot for a foot. This principle means that the punishment should correspond to the harm caused, ensuring justice is proportional and fair. It reflects the idea of equitable retribution, where the consequences match the offense, maintaining balance and order in society.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Injury for injury, wound for wound, and bruise for bruise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone strikes the eye of their male servant or female servant, causing them to lose it, they must set that servant free as compensation for the loss of their eye.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man strikes out his male servant’s tooth or his female servant’s tooth, he must set them free as compensation for the loss of their tooth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If an ox gores a man or a woman, causing their death, the ox must certainly be stoned to death, and its flesh must not be eaten. However, the owner of the ox will not be held responsible.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the ox has been known to gore with its horns in the past, and its owner has been warned about it but has failed to keep it confined, and it then kills a man or a woman, the ox must be stoned to death, and its owner shall also be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a monetary penalty is imposed on him, he must pay whatever amount is demanded as the price to redeem his life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the ox gores a son or a daughter, the same judgment shall apply to the owner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If an ox gores a male or female servant, the owner must pay their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox must be stoned to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone digs a pit or opens a pit and fails to cover it, and an ox or a donkey falls into it,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The owner of the pit must compensate for the loss, paying money to the owner of the animal; and the dead animal will then belong to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If one person’s ox injures another person’s ox, causing it to die, then they must sell the live ox and divide the money received from it equally. They must also divide the carcass of the dead ox between them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If it becomes known that the ox has a habit of goring in the past, and its owner has failed to restrain it, the owner must fully compensate by giving an ox for the ox that was killed, but the dead animal will remain his own.</span></p>






</body></html>