<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 26</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sku6zj.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6120d5cf-35c6-0f81-c114-e78aebb9e034" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 26</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you enter the land that the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance, and you take possession of it and settle there,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to take some of the first produce of the land, which you harvest from the land that the LORD your God is giving you, and place it in a basket. Then you shall go to the place where the LORD your God chooses to establish his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall go to the priest who is serving in those days and say to him, "I declare today before the LORD your God that I have entered the land which the LORD swore to our ancestors to give us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest will take the basket from your hand and place it before the altar of the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall declare before the LORD your God, saying, "My father was a wandering Aramean, and he went down to Egypt and lived there as a foreigner with only a few people. But there he became a great, powerful, and numerous nation."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Egyptians treated us harshly, oppressed us, and imposed cruel slavery upon us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When we cried out to the LORD, the God of our ancestors, the LORD heard our plea, saw our suffering, our toil, and our oppression.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD led us out of Egypt with great power, with a strong and outstretched arm, with awe-inspiring acts, and with miraculous signs and wonders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has led us to this place and given us this land—a land abundant with richness and prosperity, like one flowing with milk and honey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, look, I have brought the first produce of the land that you, O LORD, have given to me. You are to place it before the LORD your God, and bow down in reverence before the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall celebrate and take joy in all the good things that the LORD your God has given to you and your household—you, the Levite, and the foreigner living among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you have finished setting aside a tenth of all your produce in the third year, which is the year of tithing, and have given it to the Levite, the foreigner, the fatherless, and the widow, so that they may eat within your towns and be satisfied;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall declare before the LORD your God: "I have removed the sacred offerings from my house and have given them to the Levite, the foreigner, the fatherless, and the widow, in accordance with all the commands you have given me. I have not violated your commands, nor have I forgotten them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have not eaten any of it while in mourning, nor have I removed any of it for an unclean purpose, nor have I given any of it for the dead. Instead, I have listened to the voice of the LORD my God and have done everything that you have commanded me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gaze down from your sacred dwelling place, from heaven, and bless your people Israel, along with the land you have given us, just as you solemnly promised to our ancestors—a land abundant with milk and honey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today, the LORD your God has commanded you to follow these statutes and ordinances. Therefore, you must observe and carry them out wholeheartedly and with all your being.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today, you have declared the LORD to be your God, committing to follow His ways, to observe His statutes, His commandments, and His ordinances, and to listen attentively to His voice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today, the LORD has declared you to be His treasured people, just as He promised you, and He has called you to faithfully obey all His commands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will exalt you above all the nations he has created, giving you renown, prestige, and honor. You will be a people set apart as holy to the LORD your God, just as he has promised.</span></p>






</body></html>