<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sku8av.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:321abd49-0e6e-7ccc-1daa-5ae49fc28154" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, David sought guidance from the LORD, asking, "Should I go up to one of the cities of Judah?" The LORD replied to him, "Go up." David then asked, "Where should I go?" And the LORD answered, "To Hebron."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David went up to that place, accompanied by his two wives: Ahinoam from Jezreel and Abigail, who had been the wife of Nabal from Carmel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David brought up all the men who were with him, each one along with his family, and they settled in the cities of Hebron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Judah gathered and anointed David as king over the house of Judah. They also informed David, saying, "It was the men of Jabesh-gilead who buried Saul."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David sent messengers to the people of Jabesh-gilead and said to them, "May you be blessed by the LORD, for you have shown such loyalty and kindness to your lord, Saul, by giving him a proper burial."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, may the LORD show you steadfast love and faithfulness. I, too, will repay you with kindness, because you have done this good deed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, take courage now and be strong, for your master Saul is dead, and the people of Judah have anointed me as their king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Abner, the son of Ner, who was the commander of Saul’s army, took Ish-bosheth, Saul’s son, and brought him to Mahanaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They appointed him as king over Gilead, the Ashurites, Jezreel, Ephraim, Benjamin, and all of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ish-bosheth, the son of Saul, was forty years old when he became king over Israel, and he ruled for two years. However, the house of Judah remained loyal to David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The period during which David reigned as king in Hebron over the tribe of Judah lasted seven years and six months.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abner, the son of Ner, along with the servants of Ish-bosheth, the son of Saul, set out from Mahanaim and traveled to Gibeon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab, the son of Zeruiah, along with David’s servants, went out and gathered by the pool of Gibeon. They positioned themselves on opposite sides of the pool, sitting down facing one another.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abner said to Joab, "Let the young men come forward and compete before us." Joab replied, "Let them come forward."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then twelve men from Benjamin, who were loyal to Ish-bosheth, the son of Saul, came forward and crossed over, along with twelve of David’s servants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each man seized his opponent by the head and thrust his sword into his opponent’s side, so they all fell together. Therefore, that place was named Helkath-hazzurim, which means "Field of Swords," and it is located in Gibeon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, a fierce battle took place, and Abner, along with the men of Israel, was defeated by David's forces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were three sons of Zeruiah present: Joab, Abishai, and Asahel. Asahel was as swift on his feet as a wild gazelle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Asahel pursued Abner relentlessly, not veering to the right or to the left as he followed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Abner turned around and asked, "Is that you, Asahel?" And he replied, "It is I."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abner said to him, "Turn aside to your right or to your left, seize one of the young men, and take his armor for yourself." But Asahel refused to turn aside and continued to pursue him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abner spoke to Asahel again, saying, "Stop pursuing me! Why should I strike you down and leave you dead? How could I ever face your brother Joab after doing such a thing?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Asahel refused to turn away from pursuing Abner. So Abner struck him with the blunt end of his spear, hitting him in the abdomen, and the spear went through him, coming out his back. Asahel collapsed there and died on the spot. And it happened that everyone who came to the place where Asahel had fallen and died stopped and stood still.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab and Abishai pursued Abner, and as the sun was setting, they reached the hill of Ammah, which lies near Giah along the road to the wilderness of Gibeon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Benjamin rallied behind Abner, forming a single united force, and took their position on the summit of a hill.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Abner called out to Joab and said, "Must the sword continue to destroy forever? Don’t you realize that this will only lead to greater suffering in the end? How long will it be before you command your troops to stop pursuing their own brothers?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab declared, "As surely as God lives, if you had not spoken, the people would have continued pursuing their own brothers until morning."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joab sounded the trumpet, and all the troops halted. They stopped pursuing Israel and ceased fighting altogether.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abner and his men traveled all that night across the plain, crossed the Jordan River, and journeyed through the entire region of Bithron until they arrived at Mahanaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab returned from pursuing Abner, and after he had gathered all the troops together, it was discovered that nineteen of David’s men were missing, along with Asahel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, David's forces struck down some of Benjamin's men and Abner's troops, resulting in the death of three hundred and sixty men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They lifted up Asahel and buried him in the tomb of his father, which was in Bethlehem. Then Joab and his men traveled through the night and arrived in Hebron at dawn.</span></p>






</body></html>