<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\skv52z.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:50082fae-6051-8a06-65cb-cd8191094366" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Look, I have appointed you as a god-like authority to Pharaoh, and your brother Aaron will serve as your spokesperson."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must speak everything that I command you. Your brother Aaron will speak to Pharaoh, urging him to let the Israelites leave his land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause Pharaoh's heart to become stubborn, and I will perform many signs and miracles throughout the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Pharaoh will not listen to you, so that I may bring my hand against Egypt and execute my mighty acts of judgment. In this way, I will lead my armies—my people, the children of Israel—out of the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Egyptians will come to understand that I am the LORD when I extend my power over Egypt and lead the Israelites out from among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Aaron carried out exactly what the LORD had instructed them to do; they followed His commands precisely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses was eighty years old, and Aaron was eighty-three years old when they spoke to Pharaoh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Pharaoh speaks to you, saying, "Perform a miracle to prove yourselves," then you shall say to Aaron, "Take your staff and throw it down before Pharaoh, and it will become a serpent."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Aaron entered Pharaoh's presence and did exactly as the LORD had instructed them. Aaron threw his staff down before Pharaoh and his officials, and it turned into a serpent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pharaoh summoned the wise men and the sorcerers—the magicians of Egypt—and they too performed the same acts by means of their secret arts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each of them threw down his staff, and they turned into snakes; but Aaron’s staff swallowed up their staffs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He caused Pharaoh's heart to become stubborn, so that he refused to listen to them, just as the LORD had foretold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Pharaoh's heart is stubborn; he refuses to let the people go."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go to Pharaoh in the morning; look, he will be going out to the water. You must stand by the riverbank to meet him, and take in your hand the staff that was turned into a snake.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to say to him, "The LORD, the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to you with this message: Release my people, so that they may worship me in the wilderness. But until now, you have refused to listen."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "By this you will know that I am the LORD: I will strike the waters in the river with the staff in my hand, and they will be turned into blood."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fish in the river will die, and the river will become foul and emit a terrible stench. The Egyptians will find the water of the river repulsive and will be unable to drink from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD instructed Moses, saying, "Tell Aaron to take his staff and stretch out his hand over the waters of Egypt—over their streams, rivers, ponds, and all their reservoirs—so that they may turn into blood. There will be blood throughout the entire land of Egypt, even in containers made of wood and stone."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Aaron did exactly as the LORD had instructed them. Moses raised the staff and struck the waters of the Nile in the presence of Pharaoh and his officials. Immediately, all the water in the river turned to blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fish in the river died, and the river began to emit a foul odor. The Egyptians could no longer drink from its waters, and blood was found everywhere throughout the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The magicians of Egypt also performed similar acts through their secret arts. Yet Pharaoh's heart remained stubborn, and he refused to listen to them, just as the LORD had foretold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh turned and went back to his palace, and he did not take this matter to heart either.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Egyptians dug wells all around the river to find water to drink, because they could not drink the water from the river itself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Seven days passed after the LORD had struck the river.</span></p>






</body></html>