<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Genesis Chapter 41</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\skvdsb.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4fd97ce9-edb1-0ae7-f63f-cb304ecc76a7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Genesis Chapter 41</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After two full years had passed, Pharaoh had a dream. In the dream, he found himself standing by the river.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Suddenly, seven healthy and well-fed cows came up out of the river, and they grazed in the grassy meadow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, look, seven other cows came up after them out of the river, ugly and thin-bodied; and they stood beside the other cows on the riverbank.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the ugly and thin cows devoured the seven healthy and well-fed cows. After this, Pharaoh woke up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he fell asleep and dreamed a second time: and behold, seven ears of grain grew on a single stalk, healthy and thriving.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And look, seven thin and withered ears of grain, scorched by the east wind, sprouted after them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the seven thin and withered ears of grain swallowed up the seven healthy and full ears. Pharaoh woke up and realized it had been a dream.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next morning, Pharaoh’s spirit was deeply disturbed. He sent for all the magicians of Egypt and all its wise men. When they arrived, he told them his dream, but no one among them could interpret it for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the chief cupbearer spoke to Pharaoh, saying, "Today I recall my wrongdoing."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh became furious with his servants and had me imprisoned in the house of the captain of the guard, both me and the chief baker.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We both had dreams on the same night—he and I. Each of us dreamed, and each dream had its own meaning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was with us a young Hebrew man, a servant of the captain of the guard. We told him our dreams, and he interpreted them for us, explaining each man’s dream according to its meaning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened just as he had interpreted for us: he restored me to my position, but he had the other man executed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pharaoh sent for Joseph, and they quickly brought him out of the prison. Joseph shaved, changed his clothes, and presented himself before Pharaoh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh said to Joseph, "I have had a dream, and there is no one who can explain its meaning. But I have heard about you—they say you can understand dreams and interpret them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph replied to Pharaoh, "It is not within my power to interpret dreams, but God will provide Pharaoh with a favorable answer."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh said to Joseph, "In my dream, I was standing on the bank of the river."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Suddenly, seven cows emerged from the river, well-fed and healthy in appearance, and they began grazing in the grassy meadow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, seven other cows came up after them—scrawny, very ugly, and thin-fleshed. I have never seen such poor and wretched cows in all the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The thin and sickly cows devoured the first seven healthy, well-fed cows.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had devoured the thin cows, it was impossible to tell that they had eaten them, for the thin cows looked just as sickly and gaunt as they had at the start. Then I woke up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In my dream, I saw seven ears of grain growing on a single stalk, all of them full and healthy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, look, seven more ears of grain sprouted after them, but they were shriveled, thin, and scorched by the east wind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The thin, withered ears of grain consumed the seven healthy, full ears. I recounted this vision to the magicians, but none of them could explain its meaning to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph said to Pharaoh, "Pharaoh's dream is one and the same. God has revealed to Pharaoh what He is about to do."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The seven healthy cows represent seven years, and the seven healthy ears of grain also represent seven years. The dream conveys a single message.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The seven thin and sickly cows that came up after them represent seven years, and the seven withered ears of grain, scorched by the east wind, signify seven years of famine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the matter I have declared to Pharaoh: What God is about to do, He reveals to Pharaoh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, seven years of abundant harvests are coming throughout the entire land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After those seven years, there will come seven years of famine. All the abundance in the land of Egypt will be forgotten, and the famine will devastate the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The abundance in the land will not be remembered because of the severe famine that will follow, for it will be extremely devastating.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The reason the dream was given to Pharaoh twice is that the matter has been firmly decreed by God, and God will swiftly bring it to pass.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let Pharaoh seek out a man who is discerning and wise, and appoint him to oversee the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh should take this action: he should appoint overseers to manage the land and collect one-fifth of the produce of Egypt during the seven years of abundance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have them collect all the food produced during these good years that are coming, and store up grain under Pharaoh’s authority. Let them keep this food in reserve in the cities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The food shall be stored up for the land to prepare for the seven years of famine that will occur in the land of Egypt, so that the land will not be devastated by the famine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The matter pleased Pharaoh and all his officials.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh said to his officials, "Can we find anyone like this—a man in whom the Spirit of God dwells?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh said to Joseph, "Since God has revealed all this to you, there is no one as discerning and wise as you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall have authority over my household, and all my people shall be governed according to your command. Only in the matter of the throne will I be greater than you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh said to Joseph, "Listen, I have placed you in charge of the entire land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pharaoh removed his signet ring from his hand and placed it on Joseph’s hand. He clothed him in garments of fine linen and placed a gold chain around his neck.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pharaoh had Joseph ride in the second royal chariot that he owned, and they proclaimed before him, "Bow down!" In this way, he appointed Joseph as ruler over all the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh said to Joseph, "I am Pharaoh, and without your authority, no one in all the land of Egypt will be permitted to act or make any decision."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pharaoh gave Joseph the name Zaphnath-paaneah and gave him Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera, the priest of On, as his wife. Joseph went out and assumed authority over the entire land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph was thirty years old when he entered the service of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. After leaving Pharaoh’s presence, Joseph traveled throughout the entire land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the seven years of abundance, the land produced an abundant harvest, yielding crops in great abundance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He collected all the food produced during the seven years of abundance in the land of Egypt and stored it in the cities. The grain from the fields surrounding each city was brought and stored within that city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph stored up grain in such vast quantities, like the sand of the sea, that he eventually stopped keeping track because it was beyond measure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before the years of famine arrived, Joseph had two sons, born to him by Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera, the priest of On.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph named his firstborn Manasseh, saying, "God has made me forget all my hardship and my entire father's household."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he named the second son Ephraim, saying, "For God has made me fruitful in the land of my suffering."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The seven years of abundant harvest in the land of Egypt came to an end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The seven years of famine began to occur, just as Joseph had predicted. The famine affected all the lands, but throughout the land of Egypt, there was food.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the entire land of Egypt was gripped by severe famine, the people cried out to Pharaoh for food. Pharaoh responded to all the Egyptians, "Go to Joseph; whatever he tells you to do, do it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The famine spread across the entire land. Joseph then opened all the storehouses and sold grain to the Egyptians, for the famine grew severe throughout the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People from every nation came to Egypt to buy grain from Joseph, for the famine was severe throughout all the lands.</span></p>






</body></html>