<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Peter Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\skvgoo.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3ff6cd0a-2ccf-cec7-2c0f-893c4b6ed46a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Peter Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Beloved, I am now writing this second letter to you. In both letters, my purpose is to awaken your sincere minds by reminding you of these truths.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that you may remember the words spoken in the past by the holy prophets, as well as the commandment given by us, the apostles of the Lord and Savior.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">First and foremost, understand this: in the final days, mockers will arise, following their own selfish desires.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will say, "Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since our ancestors passed away, everything has remained the same as it was from the beginning of creation."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They deliberately overlook this fact: that by the command of God, the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water and by water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The world that existed at that time was destroyed when it was overwhelmed by water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The heavens and the earth that exist now are being preserved by the same divine command, held in reserve for fire, awaiting the day of judgment and the destruction of ungodly people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But, dear friends, do not overlook this important truth: with the Lord, a single day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years are like a single day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise, as some people understand slowness; rather, he is patient toward you, not wanting anyone to perish, but desiring that all should come to repentance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The day of the Lord will arrive unexpectedly, like a thief in the night. On that day, the heavens will vanish with a tremendous roar, and the elements will dissolve in intense heat. The earth and everything done on it will be utterly consumed by fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since all these things will be destroyed, what kind of people should you be? You ought to live in holiness and godliness, conducting yourselves in a manner that reflects reverence and devotion to God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Eagerly anticipating and hastening the arrival of the day of God, when the heavens, set ablaze, will be destroyed, and the elements will melt in the intense heat?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet, in accordance with His promise, we eagerly await new heavens and a new earth, where righteousness will dwell.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, beloved, since you eagerly await these things, strive to be diligent so that you may be found by Him in peace, pure and without fault.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Understand that the patience of our Lord is meant to lead to salvation, just as our dear brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, has written to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is also true in all his letters, where he speaks about these matters. In his writings, there are some things that are difficult to understand, which those who are untaught and spiritually unstable distort, just as they do with the rest of the Scriptures, to their own ruin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, dear friends, since you are already aware of these things, be on your guard so that you are not carried away by the deception of the wicked and lose your firm footing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But continue to develop in the grace and understanding of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be all glory, both now and forever. Amen.</span></p>






</body></html>