<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\skx8vi.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f315c79a-226f-33ed-27b9-ff925f260382" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and tell them: When a man or woman makes a special vow to dedicate themselves as a Nazirite, setting themselves apart for the LORD,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He must abstain from wine and any other fermented drink, and he shall not consume wine vinegar or vinegar made from fermented drink. Additionally, he must not drink any grape juice or eat fresh grapes or dried raisins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Throughout the entire period of his vow of separation, he must not consume anything produced by the grapevine, from the seeds to the skin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Throughout the entire period of his vow of dedication, no razor shall touch his head. Until the days of his consecration to the LORD are completed, he shall remain holy and allow the hair on his head to grow long.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For all the days that he dedicates himself to the LORD, he must not go near a dead body.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He must not defile himself for his father, his mother, his brother, or his sister when they die, because the dedication to his God is upon his head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Throughout the entire period of his dedication, he is set apart as holy to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone dies suddenly near a Nazirite, causing the Nazirite's consecrated head to become defiled, the Nazirite must shave his head on the day of his cleansing, which is the seventh day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eighth day, he must bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons to the priest at the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall present one of the animals as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering. In this way, he will make atonement for the person because of the sin committed in connection with the dead. On that same day, the person’s head shall be consecrated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The individual must dedicate to the LORD the days of their vow of separation and bring a one-year-old lamb as a guilt offering. However, the previous days of their separation will not count, because their vow was defiled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation for the Nazirite when the period of their dedication is completed: they must be brought to the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He is to present his offering to the LORD: one unblemished male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, one unblemished female lamb in its first year as a sin offering, and one unblemished ram as a peace offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And a basket of unleavened bread, including loaves made from fine flour mixed with oil, and thin unleavened wafers brushed with oil, along with their grain offering and their drink offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall present them before the LORD and offer the sin offering, followed by the burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall present the ram as a peace offering to the LORD, along with the basket of unleavened bread. The priest shall also offer the grain offering and the drink offering as part of the sacrifice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Nazirite must shave the head of his consecration at the entrance of the tent of meeting. He shall then take the hair from his consecrated head and place it in the fire that is beneath the peace offering sacrifice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take the boiled shoulder of the ram, along with one unleavened cake from the basket and one unleavened wafer, and place them in the hands of the Nazirite after the hair of his consecration has been shaved off.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall present them as a wave offering before the LORD. This portion is sacred and belongs to the priest, including the breast that was waved and the thigh that was lifted up. After this, the Nazirite is permitted to drink wine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning the Nazirite who has made a vow, and the offering he is to present to the LORD for his consecration, in addition to whatever else he can afford. According to the vow he has made, he must fulfill the requirements of his consecration as outlined in the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to Aaron and his sons, saying: In this manner you shall bless the people of Israel. Say to them:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the LORD bless you and protect you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the LORD cause His presence to shine upon you and show you His favor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the LORD turn His face toward you and grant you peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they shall place my name upon the people of Israel, and I will bless them.</span></p>






</body></html>