<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\skxnis.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3319bacf-2f89-7349-0f0b-4ce6ec936480" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rehoboam traveled to Shechem, for all Israel had gathered there to proclaim him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened that when Jeroboam, the son of Nebat—who was still in Egypt, having fled from King Solomon’s presence and settled there—heard the news,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sent for him and summoned him to come. Then Jeroboam and the entire assembly of Israel approached Rehoboam and said to him,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your father imposed a harsh burden on us. Now, therefore, lighten the heavy labor and the severe demands your father placed on us, and we will serve you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to them, "Go away for three days, then return to me." So the people left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Rehoboam sought counsel from the elders who had served his father Solomon during his lifetime. He asked them, "What advice do you offer on how I should respond to this people?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to him, "If you will serve this people today, and if you will attend to their needs, respond to them kindly, and speak gracious words to them, then they will remain your loyal servants forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he rejected the advice of the elders, which they had given him, and instead sought the counsel of the young men who had grown up with him and served in his presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He asked them, "What advice do you offer so that we may respond to these people who have said to me, 'Ease the burden your father placed on us'?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The young men who had grown up with him advised him, saying, "This is how you should respond to the people who have spoken to you, saying, 'Your father made our burden heavy, but you should lighten it for us.' Tell them this: 'My little finger is thicker than my father’s waist. If my father placed a heavy yoke on you, I will make it even heavier. If he disciplined you with whips, I will discipline you with scorpions.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, although my father imposed a heavy burden upon you, I will make it even heavier. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jeroboam and all the people returned to Rehoboam on the third day, as the king had instructed, saying, "Come back to me again on the third day."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king responded harshly to the people and rejected the advice given to him by the elders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He spoke to them according to the advice of the young men, saying, "My father made your burden heavy, but I will make it even heavier. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the king did not listen to the people, for this turn of events was from the LORD, to fulfill the word that the LORD had spoken through Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam, the son of Nebat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all Israel saw that the king refused to listen to them, the people responded to the king, saying, "What share do we have in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. To your tents, O Israel! Now look after your own house, David." So the people of Israel returned to their homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, concerning the Israelites who lived in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam ruled as their king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was in charge of the forced labor, but all of Israel stoned him to death. As a result, King Rehoboam quickly mounted his chariot and fled to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Israel has remained in rebellion against the house of David up to this very day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all of Israel heard that Jeroboam had returned, they summoned him to the assembly and made him king over all Israel. No one remained loyal to the house of David except the tribe of Judah alone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Rehoboam arrived in Jerusalem, he gathered the entire house of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin, assembling 180,000 carefully selected men, all skilled warriors, to wage war against the house of Israel. His aim was to restore the kingdom to Rehoboam, the son of Solomon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the word of the Lord came to Shemaiah, the prophet of God, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and speak to Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, king of Judah, as well as to all the people of Judah and Benjamin, and to the rest of the nation, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "Do not go up or fight against your fellow Israelites, your own kin. Each of you must return to your own home, for this situation has come about by my will." So they listened to the word of the LORD and turned back, obeying the command of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeroboam fortified Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim and made it his residence. From there, he went out and also fortified Penuel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeroboam thought to himself, "Now the kingdom is likely to return to the house of David."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If these people go up to offer sacrifices in the house of the LORD at Jerusalem, their hearts will turn back to their ruler, Rehoboam, the king of Judah. Then they will kill me and return to Rehoboam, the king of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king sought advice and then made two golden calves. He said to the people, "It is too burdensome for you to travel all the way to Jerusalem. Here are your gods, O Israel, who brought you out of the land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He placed one in Bethel and the other in Dan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This act became a source of sin, for the people traveled all the way to Dan to worship before the idol.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He built temples on high places and appointed priests from among the common people, who were not descendants of Levi.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeroboam established a festival in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, similar to the festival celebrated in Judah. He presented offerings on the altar, doing this in Bethel, where he sacrificed to the calf idols he had made. He also appointed priests for the high places he had set up, placing them in Bethel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he presented offerings on the altar he had built in Bethel on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, a month he had chosen on his own authority. He established a festival for the Israelites and offered sacrifices on the altar, burning incense as well.</span></p>






</body></html>