<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sl0472.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d5111004-3ce3-8b3b-a267-1f81641c3d36" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After a long period of time, the word of the LORD came to Elijah in the third year, saying, "Go and present yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain upon the land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah went to present himself to Ahab. At that time, a severe famine was afflicting Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Ahab summoned Obadiah, who was the overseer of his household. (Now Obadiah greatly revered the LORD.)</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what happened: When Jezebel was killing the prophets of the LORD, Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them in caves, dividing them into groups of fifty. He provided them with bread and water to sustain them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahab said to Obadiah, "Go throughout the land, to all the springs and streams, and see if we can find grass to keep the horses and mules alive, so that we do not lose all the animals."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they divided the land between them to search through it: Ahab went one way alone, and Obadiah went another way alone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Obadiah was on his way, suddenly Elijah met him. Obadiah recognized him immediately, fell facedown, and said, "Is it really you, my lord Elijah?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "I am he. Go and tell your master, 'Elijah is here.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "What wrong have I done, that you would hand over your servant to Ahab, to have me killed?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As surely as the LORD your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom where my master has not sent messengers to search for you. And whenever they said, ‘He is not here,’ he made the kingdom or nation swear an oath that they could not find you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now you say, ‘Go and tell your master, “Look, Elijah is here.”’</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when I leave you, the Spirit of the LORD will take you away to a place I do not know. Then, when I go and inform Ahab, and he cannot find you, he will kill me. Yet I, your servant, have revered the LORD from my youth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Did my lord not hear what I did when Jezebel killed the prophets of the LORD? I hid a hundred of the LORD’s prophets, fifty in each cave, and provided them with bread and water to sustain them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now you say, ‘Go, tell your master, “Elijah is here,”’ but he will kill me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah said, "As surely as the LORD of hosts lives, before whom I stand, I will present myself to him today."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and informed him of what had happened. Then Ahab went to meet Elijah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Ahab saw Elijah, he said to him, "Are you the one who is causing trouble for Israel?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "I have not brought trouble upon Israel; rather, you and your father's family are the ones who have caused it by abandoning the commands of the LORD and by following the Baals."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, send word and assemble all Israel to meet me at Mount Carmel, along with the 450 prophets of Baal and the 400 prophets of Asherah, who eat at Jezebel’s table.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Ahab sent messengers to all the people of Israel and summoned the prophets to gather at Mount Carmel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah approached all the people and said, "How long will you waver between two choices? If the LORD is God, then follow Him. But if Baal is god, then follow him." The people, however, did not respond with a single word.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Elijah said to the people, "I alone am left as a prophet of the LORD, but the prophets of Baal number four hundred and fifty."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let them provide us with two bulls. Let them choose one bull for themselves, cut it into pieces, and place it on the wood, but do not light a fire beneath it. I will prepare the other bull, place it on the wood, and also not light a fire beneath it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Invoke the name of your gods, and I will invoke the name of the LORD. The God who answers with fire—let him be the true God. And all the people responded, saying, "What you have said is good."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, "Select one bull for yourselves and prepare it first, since there are many of you. Then call on the name of your god, but do not light the fire beneath it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They took the bull that was provided for them, prepared it, and called on the name of Baal from morning until noon, crying out, "O Baal, answer us!" But there was no response—no voice, no reply. They continued to leap and dance around the altar they had constructed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At noon, Elijah began to mock them, saying, "Shout louder! Surely he is a god! Perhaps he is deep in thought, or occupied with some matter, or traveling. Maybe he is asleep and needs to be awakened!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shouted loudly and, according to their custom, cut themselves with knives and sharp instruments until blood flowed over them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the afternoon progressed and the prophets continued their ecstatic utterances until the time of the evening offering, there was no response—no voice, no answer, and no sign of attention from anyone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah said to all the people, "Come closer to me." So all the people gathered near him. Then he restored the altar of the LORD, which had been torn down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah took twelve stones, corresponding to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, to whom the word of the LORD had been spoken, declaring, "Your name shall be Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He used the stones to build an altar dedicated to the name of the LORD. Then he dug a trench around the altar, large enough to hold about two seahs of seed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He arranged the wood, cut the bull into pieces, and placed them on the wood. Then he said, "Fill four large jars with water and pour it over the burnt offering and the wood."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Do it again, a second time." So they did it a second time. Then he said, "Do it once more, a third time." And they did it a third time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The water flowed all around the altar, and he also filled the trench with water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the time when the evening sacrifice was being offered, the prophet Elijah approached and said, "LORD, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, let it be known today that you are God in Israel, that I am your servant, and that I have done all these things according to your command."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to me, O LORD, listen to me, so that these people may know that you are the LORD God, and that you have turned their hearts back to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the fire of the Lord came down and consumed the burnt offering, the wood, the stones, the dust, and even the water that was in the trench.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all the people witnessed this, they fell to the ground in reverence and declared, "The LORD—He is God! The LORD—He is God!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah said to them, "Seize the prophets of Baal; do not let a single one escape." So they seized them, and Elijah brought them down to the Kishon Valley and executed them there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah said to Ahab, "Go up, eat and drink, for I hear the sound of a heavy rain approaching."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Ahab went to eat and drink. Meanwhile, Elijah climbed to the summit of Mount Carmel, where he knelt down on the ground and bowed low, pressing his face between his knees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He then instructed his servant, "Go up and look toward the sea." The servant went up, looked, and said, "There is nothing." He responded, "Go back and look again, seven times."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the seventh time, he said, "Look, a small cloud is rising from the sea, about the size of a man’s hand." Then he said, "Go and tell Ahab, 'Prepare your chariot and go down quickly, so that the rain does not stop you.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that time, the sky grew dark with clouds and strong winds, and a heavy rain began to fall. Ahab mounted his chariot and set out for Jezreel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The power of the LORD came upon Elijah, and he prepared himself by tucking his robe into his belt and ran ahead of Ahab all the way to the entrance of Jezreel.</span></p>






</body></html>