<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 37</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sl1q9u.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6cf6bdb5-545d-f4b3-c6f4-253846665a08" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 37</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The power of the LORD came upon me, and by His Spirit, He led me out and brought me to the middle of a valley that was filled with bones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He led me all around them, and I saw that there were very many in the open valley, and indeed, they were completely dry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to me, "Mortal, can these bones live?" I replied, "O Lord God, only You know."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, He said to me, "Speak a prophetic message over these bones and declare to them: 'O dry bones, listen to the word of the LORD.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says to these bones: "Listen carefully, I will bring breath into you, and you will come to life."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will attach tendons to you, cause flesh to grow upon you, cover you with skin, and put breath within you, so that you will come to life. Then you will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I prophesied as I had been commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a sound, and suddenly a rattling, and the bones came together, each bone joining to its proper place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As I looked, I saw that tendons and flesh began to grow on them, and skin covered them completely. However, there was no breath of life in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then He said to me, "Prophesy to the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, 'This is what the Lord GOD says: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, so that they may live.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I prophesied as he instructed me, and the breath entered them, and they came to life, rising to their feet—a vast and mighty army.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "Mortal, these bones represent the entire house of Israel. Listen to what they are saying: 'Our bones are dried up, our hope is gone, and we are completely cut off.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, prophesy and say to them, "This is what the Lord GOD declares: Listen, my people, I will open your graves and raise you from them, and I will bring you back to the land of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you will come to understand that I am the LORD when I open your graves, my people, and raise you up from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will put my Spirit within you, and you will come to life. Then I will settle you in your own land, and you will know that I, the LORD, have spoken and have done this, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message of the LORD came to me once more, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, son of man, take a single stick and write on it, "For Judah and for the Israelites associated with him." Then take another stick and write on it, "For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel associated with him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take the sticks and join them together so that they become one in your hand. They will be united as a single piece, symbolizing their unity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when the people of your nation come to you and ask, "Will you not explain to us what these things mean?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell them this: This is what the Lord GOD says: Listen carefully, I will take the tribe of Joseph, represented by Ephraim, along with the other tribes of Israel associated with him, and I will join them together with the tribe of Judah. I will unite them into one, and they will become a single entity in my hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wooden tablets on which you write will be in your hand, visible to them as a sign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021419"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And say to them, "This is what the Lord GOD declares: Behold, I will take the people of Israel from among the nations where they have been scattered, and I will gather them from every direction and bring them back to their own land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021420"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will unite them into a single nation in the land, on the mountains of Israel, and one king will rule over all of them. They will no longer be two separate nations, nor will they ever again be divided into two kingdoms.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021421"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will no longer defile themselves with their idols, nor with their abominable practices, nor with any of their sins. Instead, I will rescue them from all the places where they have lived and sinned, and I will purify them. Then they will truly be my people, and I will be their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David, my chosen servant, will reign as their king, and they will all have one shepherd. They will live according to my laws, faithfully obey my decrees, and carry them out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will live in the land that I have given to Jacob, my servant, where your ancestors lived. They will settle there—they, their children, and their descendants forever. And my servant David will be their leader forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, I will establish a covenant of peace with them; it will be an everlasting covenant. I will settle them, increase their numbers, and set my sanctuary among them forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My dwelling place will also be among them; indeed, I will be their God, and they will be my people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the nations will know that I, the LORD, set apart Israel as holy, when my sanctuary is established among them forever.</span></p>






</body></html>