<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sl234l.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2048dab7-4391-bf16-58f3-bd68ada80dbb" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahab reported to Jezebel everything that Elijah had done, including how he had killed all the prophets with the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah with this message: "May the gods strike me dead and do even worse if I do not make your life like the life of one of those prophets by this time tomorrow."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he saw this, he got up and fled for his life, traveling to Beersheba, which is in the territory of Judah. There, he left his servant behind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he himself journeyed a day’s distance into the wilderness, came to a broom tree, and sat down under it. There he prayed for his own death, saying, “It is enough. Now, LORD, take my life, for I am no better than my ancestors.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As he lay sleeping beneath a juniper tree, suddenly an angel came and touched him, saying, "Get up and eat."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He looked, and there before him was a cake baked over hot coals, and a jar of water near his head. He ate and drank, then lay down again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the angel of the LORD returned a second time, touched him, and said, "Get up and eat, for the journey ahead is too demanding for you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He got up, ate and drank, and then, strengthened by that food, he traveled for forty days and forty nights until he reached Horeb, the mountain of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He arrived at a cave and stayed there overnight. Then, the word of the LORD came to him, saying, "What are you doing here, Elijah?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "I have been deeply zealous for the LORD, the God of armies, because the people of Israel have abandoned your covenant, torn down your altars, and killed your prophets with the sword. I alone am left, and now they are seeking to take my life as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said, "Go out and stand on the mountain in the presence of the LORD." And behold, the LORD passed by, and a mighty and powerful wind tore through the mountains and shattered the rocks before the LORD, but the LORD was not in the wind. After the wind came an earthquake, but the LORD was not in the earthquake.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After the earthquake came a fire, but the LORD was not in the fire. And after the fire, there was a gentle, quiet whisper.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Elijah heard this, he covered his face with his cloak, went out, and stood at the entrance of the cave. Suddenly, a voice came to him and said, “What are you doing here, Elijah?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "I have been deeply zealous for the LORD, the God of hosts, because the people of Israel have abandoned your covenant, torn down your altars, and killed your prophets with the sword. I alone am left, and now they are seeking to take my life as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to him, "Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus. When you arrive, anoint Hazael as king over Syria."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to anoint Jehu, the son of Nimshi, as king over Israel, and Elisha, the son of Shaphat from Abel-meholah, as prophet to succeed you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: those who escape the sword of Hazael will be killed by Jehu, and those who escape the sword of Jehu will be killed by Elisha.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet I have preserved for myself seven thousand in Israel—all those whose knees have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth that has not kissed him in worship.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Elijah left that place and found Elisha, the son of Shaphat, who was plowing a field with twelve pairs of oxen. Elisha himself was working with the twelfth pair. As Elijah walked by him, he threw his cloak over Elisha.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he left the oxen and ran after Elijah, saying, “Please, let me kiss my father and mother goodbye, and then I will follow you.” But Elijah replied, “Go back, for what have I done to hold you back?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He turned away from him, took a pair of oxen, slaughtered them, and cooked their meat using the oxen's equipment. Then he gave the food to the people, and they ate. Afterward, he got up, followed Elijah, and became his servant.</span></p>






</body></html>