<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 30</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sl55a7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:10f88ad4-5a04-ac81-1b4e-7cb2c5982f13" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 30</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message of the LORD came to me once more, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, prophesy and declare this message from the Lord GOD: Cry out in anguish, 'Alas for that day!'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The day is close at hand—yes, the day of the LORD is near, a day of thick clouds. It will be a time of reckoning for the nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A sword will come against Egypt, and Ethiopia will be gripped by great anguish when the slain fall in Egypt. Her vast population will be taken away, and her very foundations will be shattered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ethiopia, Libya, Lydia, and all the diverse peoples, along with Chub and the men of the allied lands, will fall by the sword alongside them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Those who support Egypt will fall, and the arrogance of its strength will be brought low. From Migdol to Syene, they will fall by the sword—declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will become desolate among the nations that are already desolate, and their cities will lie in ruins among cities that have been destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they will recognize that I am the LORD when I ignite a fire in Egypt, and when all those who support her are brought to ruin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, I will send out messengers by ships to startle the complacent Ethiopians, and they will experience great distress, just as they did in the time of Egypt. Behold, it is coming!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: I will bring an end to the great population of Egypt through the power of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He and his forces, the most fearsome among the nations, will be brought in to devastate the land. They will draw their swords against Egypt and fill the land with the dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will dry up the rivers and hand the land over to the wicked. I will devastate the land and everything in it by the power of foreign invaders. I, the LORD, have declared it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: I will destroy the idols and put an end to their images in Noph. There will no longer be a ruler in the land of Egypt, and I will bring fear upon the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will make Pathros a desolate place, set Zoan ablaze with fire, and carry out my judgments against No.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will unleash my wrath upon Sin, the stronghold of Egypt, and I will destroy the great population of No.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring fire upon Egypt: Sin will be in great anguish, No will be torn apart, and Noph will face constant distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The young men of Aven and Pi-beseth will be struck down by the sword, and these cities will be taken into captivity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In Tehaphnehes, the day will grow dark when I shatter the yokes of Egypt there. The pride of her power will come to an end, and a cloud will envelop her. Her daughters will be taken away as captives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, I will carry out my judgments against Egypt, and they will come to understand that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eleventh year, on the seventh day of the first month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, I have shattered the strength of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Behold, it will not be restored or healed, nor will it be wrapped with bandages or bound up to regain its power to wield the sword."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: "Listen, I am against Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. I will shatter his strength, both the arm that is strong and the one already broken, and I will make the sword fall from his hand."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them across the lands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will empower the king of Babylon, placing my sword in his hand to act with strength. However, I will weaken Pharaoh’s power, and he will cry out in anguish before the king of Babylon, like a man mortally wounded and groaning in his pain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will empower the king of Babylon, while the strength of Pharaoh will fail. Then they will recognize that I am the LORD, when I place my sword in the hand of the king of Babylon, and he wields it against the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and spread them across the lands. Then they will come to know that I am the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>