<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Zechariah Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sl6c43.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a44bfc22-3d67-2b2c-fc67-997ab55fda16" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Zechariah Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Open your gates, O Lebanon, so that the fire may consume your cedar trees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wail, fir tree, for the cedar has fallen; the mighty ones have been laid waste. Cry out, you oaks of Bashan, for the dense forest has been brought down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The shepherds cry out in anguish, for their splendor has been devastated. The young lions roar fiercely, for the majesty of the Jordan has been laid waste.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD my God says: "Take care of the flock marked for slaughter."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who own them kill them and feel no guilt, and those who sell them say, "Praise the LORD, for I have become wealthy!" Even their own shepherds show them no compassion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares, "I will no longer show compassion to the people of this land. Instead, I will hand each person over to the power of their neighbor and to the authority of their king. They will bring devastation upon the land, and I will not rescue them from their hands."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will care for the flock marked for slaughter, especially you, the oppressed and vulnerable among them. I took two staffs for myself: one I named *Favor*, and the other I named *Unity*. And I tended the flock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also removed three shepherds within a single month, for I grew weary of them, and they, in turn, despised me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said, "I will no longer shepherd you. Let the dying die, and let the one destined for destruction be destroyed. As for the rest, let them devour one another's flesh."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I took my staff, named Favor, and broke it in two, thereby annulling the covenant I had established with all the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, it was shattered, and thus the humble among the flock who faithfully followed me recognized that this was indeed the word of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I said to them, "If you consider it right, give me my payment; but if not, then withhold it." So they weighed out thirty pieces of silver as my payment. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "Throw it to the potter"—the magnificent value at which they valued me. So I took the thirty pieces of silver and threw them to the potter in the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I took my other staff, named Bands, and broke it in two, symbolizing the breaking of the bond of unity between Judah and Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "Take for yourself the tools of a worthless shepherd."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For behold, I will raise up a shepherd in the land who will not care for those who are lost, nor seek the young, nor heal the injured, nor nourish the healthy. Instead, he will devour the flesh of the fattened ones and tear their hooves to pieces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Disaster will come upon the worthless shepherd who abandons the flock! The sword will strike his arm and his right eye: his arm will wither completely, and his right eye will be completely blinded.</span></p>






</body></html>