<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\slb12t.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cbe3cfc0-1087-e8a5-bf7f-3e430025e6db" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Send the lamb as tribute to the ruler of the land, from Sela through the wilderness, to the mountain of the daughter of Zion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For it will happen that, like a wandering bird pushed from its nest, so the daughters of Moab will be left stranded at the crossings of the Arnon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Seek wise advice and carry out justice; provide shelter like the shade of night in the heat of midday; protect those who are displaced and do not betray the one who is fleeing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Allow those of my people who have been driven out to find refuge with you, Moab; provide them shelter from the destroyer. For the oppressor has come to an end, the destroyer has ceased, and those who crush others have been wiped out from the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The throne will be established through steadfast love, and he will sit upon it with faithfulness in the tent of David. He will govern with justice, uphold what is right, and swiftly bring about righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have heard of Moab’s arrogance—how exceedingly proud he is—of his haughtiness, his pride, and his fury. But his boasts will not stand; his claims are empty and false.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the people of Moab will wail for Moab; all of them will lament. You will grieve for the ruins of Kir-hareseth, for they are utterly devastated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fields of Heshbon are withered, and the vines of Sibmah are failing. The rulers of the nations have destroyed their finest vines; they have reached as far as Jazer and wandered through the wilderness. Their branches once spread far and wide, even crossing over the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will mourn for the vine of Sibmah with the same grief as the weeping for Jazer. I will drench you with my tears, O Heshbon and Elealeh, for the joyful cries over your summer fruits and your harvest have come to an end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Happiness has vanished, and joy is gone from the fertile fields; in the vineyards, there will be no singing, no shouts of celebration. Those who tread the grapes will no longer press out wine; I have put an end to their joyful cries during the harvest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, my heart will mourn for Moab like the sound of a harp, and my deepest emotions will grieve for Kir-hareseth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen, when it becomes evident that Moab is exhausted from their efforts on the high places, that they will go to their sanctuary to pray, but they will not succeed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that the LORD has spoken concerning Moab from that time onward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But now the LORD has declared, saying, "Within three years, as counted precisely as a hired worker's contract, the glory of Moab will be brought to shame, along with all its vast multitude. Only a small and feeble remnant will remain."</span></p>






</body></html>