<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Micah Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sle33c.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:eec17917-28f0-3c3e-e738-d0210d8395b6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Micah Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I said, "Please listen, you leaders of Jacob and rulers of the house of Israel! Should it not be your responsibility to understand justice?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They despise what is good and embrace what is evil; they strip the skin from people and the flesh from their bones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They even consume the flesh of my people, strip the skin from their bodies, and break their bones into pieces. They chop them up like meat for the pot, like flesh to be cooked in a cauldron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, they will cry out to the LORD, but he will not answer them. He will turn his face away from them, for they have acted wickedly in their deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says concerning the prophets who lead my people astray, who proclaim peace while they bite with their teeth, but declare war against anyone who does not feed them: They cry out "Peace" when they have something to eat, but if someone fails to provide for them, they are quick to stir up conflict.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, night will come upon you, and you will have no vision; darkness will cover you, and you will not be able to practice divination. The sun will set on the prophets, and the day will grow dark for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, those who claim to see visions will be put to shame, and those who practice divination will be disgraced. Indeed, they will all cover their mouths, for there will be no response from God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, I am filled with strength by the Spirit of the Lord, with justice, and with courage, to proclaim to Jacob his rebellion and to Israel his sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, you leaders of the house of Jacob, you rulers of the house of Israel, who despise justice and twist what is right.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They construct Zion through violence and establish Jerusalem through wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of the people make decisions for bribes, the priests teach for payment, and the prophets deliver messages for money. Yet they still claim to rely on the LORD, saying, "Isn’t the LORD with us? No harm can come to us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, because of your actions, Zion will be plowed like a field, Jerusalem will be reduced to ruins, and the mountain of the Lord’s temple will become like the overgrown heights of a forest.</span></p>






</body></html>