<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 28</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\slgn78.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:20d10e7c-e127-0541-1459-2ddd630b2ea5" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 28</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaz was twenty years old when he became king, and he ruled for sixteen years in Jerusalem. However, he did not do what was right in the eyes of the LORD, unlike his ancestor David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he followed the practices of the kings of Israel and even made cast idols for the Baals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, he burned incense in the Valley of the Son of Hinnom and sacrificed his children in the fire, following the detestable practices of the nations whom the LORD had driven out before the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also offered sacrifices and burned incense on the high places, on the hills, and beneath every flourishing tree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD his God handed him over to the king of Aram, and they defeated him, taking a large number of his people as captives and bringing them to Damascus. He was also handed over to the king of Israel, who inflicted a devastating defeat upon him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pekah, the son of Remaliah, killed 120,000 men in Judah in a single day, all of whom were courageous warriors. This happened because they had abandoned the LORD, the God of their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zichri, a powerful warrior from Ephraim, killed Maaseiah, the king’s son, along with Azrikam, the overseer of the royal household, and Elkanah, who held a high position second only to the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites took captive two hundred thousand of their fellow Israelites—women, sons, and daughters—and seized a great amount of plunder from them. They then brought the plunder to Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But there was a prophet of the LORD named Oded, who went out to meet the army as they returned to Samaria. He said to them, "Listen! Because the LORD, the God of your ancestors, was angry with Judah, He handed them over to you, and you have slaughtered them in a fury that reaches up to heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now you intend to subjugate the people of Judah and Jerusalem, making them your male and female slaves. But do you not also have your own sins against the LORD your God? Are you not guilty before Him as well?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now listen to me carefully and return the captives you have taken from your own people, for the intense anger of the LORD is directed against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then some of the leaders of the descendants of Ephraim—Azariah son of Johanan, Berechiah son of Meshillemoth, Jehizkiah son of Shallum, and Amasa son of Hadlai—stood up against those who were returning from the battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to them, "You must not bring the captives here, for we have already sinned against the LORD. By doing this, you are adding to our sins and guilt, for our guilt is already great, and there is intense anger against Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The soldiers brought the captives and the plunder before the leaders and the entire assembly, leaving them there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men who were specifically named rose up, took charge of the captives, and used the spoils to clothe all those among them who were naked. They provided them with garments, gave them sandals, and supplied them with food and drink. They also anointed them with oil and transported all those who were weak or unable to walk on donkeys. They brought them to Jericho, the city of palm trees, to rejoin their fellow Israelites. Afterward, they returned to Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, King Ahaz sent messengers to the kings of Assyria, seeking their assistance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the Edomites had invaded and attacked Judah, taking captives with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines had also raided the cities in the lowlands and the southern regions of Judah. They captured Beth-shemesh, Ajalon, Gederoth, and Shocho, along with their surrounding villages, as well as Timnah and its villages, and Gimzo with its villages. They settled in these areas and made them their dwelling places.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD humbled Judah because of Ahaz, king of Israel, for he led Judah into moral and spiritual corruption and committed grave offenses against the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Tilgath-pilneser, the king of Assyria, came to him, but instead of helping, he brought trouble and did not provide any support.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaz took a portion of the treasures from the house of the LORD, as well as from the palace of the king and from the officials, and gave it to the king of Assyria. However, this did not bring him any assistance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During his time of trouble, he sinned even more against the LORD—this was King Ahaz.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he offered sacrifices to the gods of Damascus, who had defeated him, and he reasoned, "Since the gods of the kings of Syria give them victory, I will also sacrifice to them so that they may help me." But these gods became the cause of his downfall and the downfall of all Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaz collected the sacred vessels from the house of God, then cut them into pieces. He also closed the doors of the Lord’s temple and set up altars on every street corner in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In every city throughout Judah, he established high places to burn incense to other gods, thereby provoking the anger of the LORD, the God of his ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, as for the rest of his deeds and all his actions, from beginning to end, they are indeed recorded in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaz died and was buried in the city of Jerusalem, but he was not laid to rest in the tombs of the kings of Israel. His son Hezekiah then became king in his place.</span></p>






</body></html>