<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Timothy Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\slhaeo.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:befbc460-0443-c72f-0060-091bc21cbdb5" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Timothy Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the authority and command of God our Savior and the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the source of our hope.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To Timothy, my true child in the faith: May grace, mercy, and peace be yours from God the Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I urged you to remain in Ephesus when I went to Macedonia so that you could instruct certain individuals not to teach any different doctrine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not pay attention to myths and unending family histories, which only lead to pointless debates rather than promoting the spiritual growth that comes from faith. This is what you should do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ultimate purpose of the commandment is love that flows from a pure heart, a clear conscience, and genuine faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From this, some have strayed and turned aside to meaningless chatter;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They aspire to be teachers of the law, yet they fail to grasp the meaning of their own words or the matters they so confidently assert.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We understand that the law is good, provided it is used in the way it was intended.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Understand this clearly: the law is not intended for those who are righteous, but for those who are lawless and rebellious, for the ungodly and sinful, for those who are unholy and irreverent, for those who kill their fathers or mothers, for murderers,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For those who engage in sexual immorality, for those who defile themselves through homosexual acts, for slave traders, for liars, for those who give false testimony under oath, and for anyone else who practices anything that opposes the teachings of sound and wholesome instruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">According to the magnificent good news of the God who is supremely blessed, a message that has been entrusted to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I give thanks to Christ Jesus our Lord, who has given me strength, because He considered me trustworthy and appointed me to serve in this ministry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I was once a blasphemer, a persecutor, and a violent aggressor. Yet I received mercy because I acted in ignorance and unbelief.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the grace of our Lord overflowed abundantly, accompanied by faith and love that are found in Christ Jesus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is a trustworthy statement, deserving full acceptance, that Christ Jesus entered the world to save sinners—and I am the foremost among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, it was for this reason that I received mercy: so that in me, as the foremost example, Jesus Christ might demonstrate His complete patience, making me a model for those who would later believe in Him and receive eternal life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the eternal King, who is immortal, unseen, and the only wise God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I entrust this responsibility to you, my son Timothy, in accordance with the prophetic words previously spoken about you, so that by following them you may fight the good fight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Maintaining faith and a clear conscience, which some have rejected and, as a result, have caused their faith to be utterly ruined.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am referring to Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan so that they may be taught not to blaspheme.</span></p>






</body></html>