<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\slmr3x.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:87cd5bd8-2779-e961-4d9a-a21b13653917" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites continued their journey and set up camp in the plains of Moab, on the eastern side of the Jordan River, near Jericho.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balak, the son of Zippor, observed everything that Israel had done to the Amorites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Moabites were deeply terrified of the Israelites because they were so numerous, and Moab was filled with dread and anxiety because of the presence of the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Moab said to the leaders of Midian, "This multitude will soon devour everything around us, just as an ox consumes the grass of the field." At that time, Balak, the son of Zippor, was the king of the Moabites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he sent messengers to Balaam, the son of Beor, in Pethor, which is near the Euphrates River in the land of his people, to summon him, saying, "Look, a people has come out of Egypt. They cover the face of the land and are settling close to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Now, therefore, I ask you, please come and curse this people for me, because they are too powerful for me. Perhaps then I will be able to defeat them and drive them out of the land. For I know that whoever you bless is blessed, and whoever you curse is cursed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of Moab and the elders of Midian left, carrying with them the payment for divination. They went to Balaam and delivered to him the message from Balak.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "Stay here tonight, and I will bring you an answer, just as the LORD speaks to me." So the leaders of Moab stayed with Balaam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And God appeared to Balaam and asked, "Who are these men with you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balaam said to God, "Balak, the son of Zippor, king of Moab, has sent me a message, saying,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, a people has come out of Egypt, and they cover the face of the land. Now come and curse them for me; perhaps I will be able to defeat them and drive them away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God said to Balaam, "You must not go with them, and you must not curse the people, because they are blessed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balaam got up in the morning and said to the officials of Balak, "Return to your own land, for the LORD has refused to allow me to go with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of Moab arose and went to Balak, saying, "Balaam refuses to come with us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Balak sent yet another group of officials, this time more numerous and of higher rank than the previous ones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They went to Balaam and said to him, "This is what Balak, the son of Zippor, says: Please, let nothing stop you from coming to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will grant you great honor, and I will do whatever you ask of me. So please, come and put a curse on this people for me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balaam replied to Balak’s servants, “Even if Balak were to give me his house filled with silver and gold, I could not go against the command of the LORD my God, whether to do less or more.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, I ask you, please stay here tonight as well, so that I may learn what more the LORD will say to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That night, God came to Balaam and said to him, "If the men come to summon you, get up and go with them. However, you must do only what I tell you to say."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balaam got up early in the morning, prepared his donkey, and set out with the officials of Moab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God became angry because he went, and the angel of the LORD positioned himself in the road to oppose him. At that moment, he was riding on his donkey, accompanied by his two servants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The donkey saw the angel of the LORD standing in the road with a drawn sword in his hand. So the donkey turned off the path and went into the field. Balaam then struck the donkey to force her back onto the road.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the angel of the LORD stood in a narrow path between the vineyards, with a wall on one side and a wall on the other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the donkey saw the angel of the LORD, she pressed herself against the wall, crushing Balaam’s foot against it. So he struck her again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel of the LORD went on and stood in a narrow place, where there was no room to turn either to the right or to the left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the donkey saw the angel of the LORD, it lay down under Balaam. This enraged Balaam, and he struck the donkey with his staff.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD enabled the donkey to speak, and she said to Balaam, "What have I done to you that you have struck me these three times?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balaam said to the donkey, "Because you have made a fool of me! If only I had a sword in my hand, I would kill you right now."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The donkey said to Balaam, “Am I not your donkey, the one you have ridden all your life until now? Have I ever behaved this way toward you before?” And Balaam replied, “No.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD opened Balaam’s eyes, and he saw the angel of the LORD standing in the road with a drawn sword in his hand. Balaam bowed his head low and fell facedown to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel of the LORD said to him, "Why have you struck your donkey these three times? I came out to oppose you because your path is reckless and contrary to my will."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The donkey saw me and turned away from me these three times. If she had not turned aside, I would certainly have killed you by now and spared her life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balaam said to the angel of the LORD, "I have sinned, for I did not realize that you were standing in the road to oppose me. Now, if this journey displeases you, I will turn back."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel of the LORD said to Balaam, "Go with the men, but speak only the words that I tell you." So Balaam went with the officials of Balak.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Balak heard that Balaam had arrived, he went out to meet him at a city in Moab, located on the border of the Arnon River, at the farthest edge of the territory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balak said to Balaam, "Did I not urgently send messengers to summon you? Why did you not come to me? Am I truly not able to bestow honor upon you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balaam said to Balak, "Look, I have come to you. But do I have any power to say whatever I want? I can only speak the words that God puts in my mouth—that is what I must say."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balaam went with Balak, and they arrived at Kirjath-huzoth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balak presented oxen and sheep as offerings and sent them to Balaam, along with the leaders who were accompanying him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, Balak took Balaam and led him up to the high places dedicated to Baal, so that from there he could see the outermost portion of the Israelite camp.</span></p>






</body></html>