<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\slqngn.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:97567768-9275-ad9a-c4a8-aedb49fe5340" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You, son of man, take a clay tablet and set it before you. Then draw a representation of the city, Jerusalem, upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Surround the city and lay siege to it; construct siege works against it, raise an embankment around it, and set up your camp facing it. Position battering rams on every side to break through its defenses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, take an iron pan and place it as an iron wall between yourself and the city. Direct your attention firmly toward it, for it will be under siege, and you will lay siege to it. This will serve as a sign to the house of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Lie down on your left side and place the guilt of the house of Israel upon it. For the number of days that you lie on that side, you will bear their iniquity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I have assigned to you the years of their guilt, corresponding to the number of days—three hundred and ninety days. In this way, you will bear the guilt of the house of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you have completed these actions, lie down again on your right side, and you will bear the guilt of the house of Judah for forty days. I have assigned to you one day for each year.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must direct your attention toward the siege of Jerusalem. Prepare yourself for action, and prophesy against the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will bind you with restraints, and you will not be able to turn from one side to the other until you have completed the days of your siege.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take for yourself wheat, barley, beans, lentils, millet, and spelt, and place them all in a single container. Use them to make bread for yourself, enough to last for the number of days you will lie on your side—three hundred and ninety days. You will eat this bread during that time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your food, which you shall eat, shall be measured out by weight—twenty shekels per day. You shall eat it at regular intervals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall drink water by measure, a sixth of a hin at a time; you shall drink it at set intervals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall eat it like barley cakes, and you shall bake it using human excrement, in their presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declared, "In this way, the people of Israel will eat their unclean bread among the nations where I will scatter them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said, "Ah, Lord GOD! Look, I have kept myself pure: from my youth until now, I have never eaten anything that died naturally or was torn apart by animals, nor has any unclean meat ever entered my mouth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "Look, I have allowed you to use cow's dung instead of human dung, and you shall prepare your bread with it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, he said to me, "Son of man, take note: I am going to cut off the supply of bread in Jerusalem. The people will eat their bread by ration, anxiously measuring it out, and they will drink water by measure, in distress and dismay."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that they may lack bread and water, be utterly dismayed at one another, and waste away because of their sin.</span></p>






</body></html>