<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 29</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\slr19s.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:eef3ba87-cb1b-f8ff-e3b1-adda38502058" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 29</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines assembled all their forces at Aphek, while the Israelites camped near the spring in Jezreel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of the Philistines marched forward in their hundreds and thousands, while David and his men followed at the rear with Achish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the leaders of the Philistines asked, "What are these Hebrews doing here?" Achish replied to the leaders of the Philistines, "Is this not David, the servant of Saul, king of Israel, who has been with me for some time now—whether days or years? From the moment he defected to me until this very day, I have found no fault in him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of the Philistines became angry with him, and they said to him, "Send this man back to the place you assigned him. Let him return there and not go down with us into battle. Otherwise, he might turn against us during the fight and become our enemy. How else could he regain his master’s favor except by using the heads of our own men?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is this not David, the one about whom they sang to each other in their dances, saying, "Saul has slain his thousands, and David his tens of thousands"?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Achish summoned David and said to him, "As surely as the LORD lives, you have proven yourself to be upright, and your conduct with me in the army has been commendable in my eyes. From the day you came to me until now, I have found no fault in you. Yet, the leaders of the Philistines do not approve of you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, go back now and depart in peace, so that you do not anger the rulers of the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Achish, "What have I done wrong? What fault have you found in your servant from the day I first came to you until now, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Achish replied to David, "I know that you are pleasing in my sight, like an angel of God. However, the leaders of the Philistines have said, 'He must not go with us into battle.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, get up early in the morning with your master’s servants who have come with you. As soon as it is light and you are ready, set out and leave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David and his men got up early in the morning to leave and return to the land of the Philistines. Meanwhile, the Philistines advanced toward Jezreel.</span></p>






</body></html>