<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 26</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\slru3q.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:45df0636-3b32-3165-5424-74066975b339" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 26</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Agrippa said to Paul, "You are allowed to speak in your own defense." At that, Paul raised his hand and began to present his case:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I consider myself fortunate, King Agrippa, because today I have the opportunity to defend myself before you concerning all the accusations brought against me by the Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Especially since I am aware that you are well-versed in all the customs and disputes among the Jewish people. Therefore, I ask you to listen to me with patience.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"My way of life from my earliest days, spent among my own people in Jerusalem, is well known to all the Jews. They are fully aware of how I have lived since my youth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who have known me from the start, if they were to testify, would confirm that I lived as a Pharisee, adhering to the strictest sect of our religion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now I stand here being judged because of the hope I have in the promise that God made to our ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To this promise our twelve tribes, earnestly worshiping God day and night, hope to attain. It is because of this hope, King Agrippa, that I am being accused by the Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why should it seem unbelievable to you that God would raise the dead?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I was fully convinced in my own mind that I should actively oppose and act against the name of Jesus of Nazareth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what I also did in Jerusalem: with the authority I received from the chief priests, I imprisoned many of the believers. And when they were sentenced to death, I cast my vote against them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I frequently punished them in every synagogue and forced them to speak against their faith. In my intense rage against them, I pursued them even to foreign cities, relentlessly persecuting them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As I was traveling to Damascus, carrying the authority and official orders from the chief priests,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At noon, O king, as I was traveling, I saw a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, shining all around me and those who were journeying with me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When we all fell to the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me, saying in the Hebrew language, “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is difficult for you to resist and struggle against what is inevitable.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I asked, "Who are you, Lord?" And he replied, "I am Jesus, the one you are persecuting."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But get up and stand on your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose: to appoint you as a servant and a witness, both of the things you have already seen and of those in which I will reveal myself to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will rescue you from your own people and from the Gentiles, to whom I am now sending you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light and from the dominion of Satan to God. In this way, they may receive forgiveness for their sins and a place among those who are set apart by faith in me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, King Agrippa, I did not refuse to obey the divine vision I received.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But first, I proclaimed the message to those in Damascus, then in Jerusalem, and throughout all the regions of Judea, and finally to the Gentiles, urging them to repent, turn to God, and demonstrate their repentance through actions that reflect a changed life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For these reasons, the Jews seized me in the temple and sought to kill me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because I have received God’s help, I stand here to this day, testifying to both the humble and the prominent, declaring nothing beyond what the prophets and Moses foretold would happen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That the Messiah must suffer, that he would be the first to rise from the dead, and that he would bring the message of light both to the Jewish people and to the Gentiles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Paul was presenting his defense, Festus exclaimed loudly, "Paul, you are out of your mind! Your extensive learning is driving you to madness!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Paul replied, "I am not insane, most excellent Festus; I am speaking words of truth and sound judgment."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king is well aware of these matters, and I speak openly before him, for I am convinced that none of these things has escaped his notice. After all, this was not done in secret.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Agrippa, do you believe what the prophets have said? I am confident that you do believe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Agrippa said to Paul, "You almost convince me to become a Christian."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul replied, "I pray to God that not only you but all who are listening to me today might become as I am—except for these chains."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had finished speaking, the king stood up, along with the governor, Bernice, and those who were seated with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had stepped aside, they discussed the matter among themselves, saying, "This man has done nothing deserving of death or imprisonment."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Agrippa said to Festus, "This man could have been released if he had not appealed to Caesar."</span></p>






</body></html>