<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\slu8c5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5b6e107d-a4f1-868a-00a4-9cdad5e5f6ea" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people began to complain, it greatly displeased the LORD. The LORD heard their grievances, and His anger was aroused. Then the fire of the LORD blazed among them, devouring those who were at the outskirts of the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people cried out to Moses for help, and when Moses prayed to the LORD, the fire was extinguished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He named that place Taberah, because the fire of the LORD had burned among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The mixed group of people among them began to crave other food, and the Israelites also started weeping again, saying, "Who will give us meat to eat?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We recall the fish we used to eat freely in Egypt, along with the cucumbers, melons, leeks, onions, and garlic.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But now our strength is completely drained; there is nothing at all before our eyes except this manna.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The manna resembled coriander seed in appearance, and its color was like that of bdellium.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people went out and gathered it, then ground it in mills or crushed it with mortars. They cooked it in pans and made it into cakes. Its taste was like that of fresh olive oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when the dew descended on the camp during the night, the manna came down upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Moses heard the people weeping throughout their households, each person at the entrance of their tent. The LORD’s anger burned intensely, and Moses was deeply troubled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to the LORD, "Why have you brought such trouble upon your servant? Why have I not found favor in your eyes, that you place the weight of all these people on me?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have I brought this entire people into existence? Have I fathered them, that you should say to me, ‘Carry them in your arms, as a nurse carries a nursing infant, to the land you swore to their ancestors’?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Where would I get enough meat to feed all these people? They are crying out to me, saying, "Give us meat to eat!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I cannot carry the burden of all these people by myself, for it is too great for me to bear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you are going to treat me this way, then please, kill me now—if I have found favor in your sight—and spare me from having to endure this misery.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Assemble for me seventy men from the elders of Israel—men you know to be recognized as leaders and authorities among the people. Bring them to the tent of meeting, so that they may stand there with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will descend and speak with you there. I will take some of the Spirit that is upon you and place it upon them, so that they may share the burden of the people with you, and you will not have to carry it alone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you shall say to the people, "Prepare yourselves for tomorrow, for you will eat meat. You have cried out in the hearing of the LORD, saying, 'Who will give us meat to eat? We were better off in Egypt!' Therefore, the LORD will give you meat, and you will eat it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not eat for one day, or two days, or five days, or even ten days, or twenty days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even for an entire month, until it comes out of your nostrils and becomes disgusting to you, because you have rejected the LORD who is among you and have wept before Him, saying, "Why did we ever leave Egypt?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said, "The people among whom I live number six hundred thousand on foot, and yet you have said, 'I will give them meat to eat for an entire month.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Should the flocks and herds be slaughtered for them to satisfy their needs? Or should all the fish of the sea be gathered for them to meet their demands?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Has my power diminished? You will now see whether what I have promised you will come to pass or not."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses went out and conveyed to the people the words of the LORD. He then assembled seventy men from the elders of the people and positioned them around the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD descended in a cloud and spoke to him. Then He took some of the Spirit that was upon him and distributed it to the seventy elders. When the Spirit rested upon them, they began to prophesy, and they did not stop.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, two men remained in the camp—one named Eldad and the other named Medad. The Spirit came upon them, even though they were among those listed but had not gone out to the tent of meeting. And they began to prophesy right there in the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A young man ran to Moses and reported, saying, "Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua, the son of Nun, who served as Moses' assistant and was one of his chosen young men, responded by saying, "My lord Moses, stop them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to him, "Are you jealous on my behalf? I wish that all the LORD's people were prophets and that the LORD would place His Spirit upon them!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Moses went into the camp, accompanied by the elders of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a wind sent by the LORD arose and drove quails in from the sea, scattering them all around the camp. They fell across the area, extending about a day’s journey in every direction, encircling the camp. The quails lay piled up on the ground, about two cubits deep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people remained standing throughout that entire day, all through the night, and the following day as well, gathering quails. Even the one who gathered the least collected ten homers. They spread the quails out all around the camp to prepare them for themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While the meat was still in their mouths, before they had even chewed it, the anger of the LORD burned against the people, and the LORD struck them with a severe and devastating plague.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He named that place Kibroth-hattaavah, which means "Graves of Craving," because there they buried the people who had given in to their selfish desires.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people traveled from Kibroth-hattaavah to Hazeroth and stayed there.</span></p>






</body></html>