<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\slum5z.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c60cdf53-f766-e70b-b960-218927baff35" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked, and behold, a Lamb stood on Mount Zion, and with Him were one hundred forty-four thousand who had His Father’s name written on their foreheads.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I heard a voice from heaven, like the sound of rushing waters and the roar of mighty thunder. I also heard the sound of harpists playing their harps.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sang what seemed to be a new song before the throne, before the four living creatures, and before the elders. No one could learn that song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the ones who have not been defiled by immoral relationships with women, for they have remained pure. They are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever He goes. They have been redeemed from among humanity as a special offering to God and to the Lamb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And no deceit was found in their speech, for they are blameless in the presence of God’s throne.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw another angel flying high in the sky, carrying the eternal good news to proclaim to those who live on the earth—to every nation, tribe, language, and people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He proclaimed with a powerful voice, "Revere God and honor Him, for the time of His judgment has arrived. Worship Him who created the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then another angel appeared, proclaiming, "Babylon has fallen, has fallen—that great city—because she caused all nations to drink from the wine of her passionate immorality, which brought God's wrath."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the third angel followed them, proclaiming in a loud voice: "If anyone worships the beast and its image, and accepts its mark on their forehead or on their hand,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That person will drink from the wine of God's wrath, which is poured out undiluted into the cup of His fierce anger. They will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the sight of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The smoke of their suffering rises endlessly, without ceasing, and those who worship the beast and its image, or who receive the mark of its name, will find no relief, day or night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is where the steadfastness of God's holy people is demonstrated: these are the ones who remain faithful to God's commandments and hold firmly to their trust in Jesus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, "Write this: Blessed are those who die in the Lord from now on." "Yes," says the Spirit, "so that they may rest from their toil, for their deeds accompany them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked, and there before me was a white cloud, and seated on the cloud was one who resembled the Son of Man. He wore a golden crown on his head and held a sharp sickle in his hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then another angel emerged from the temple, calling out in a loud voice to the one seated on the cloud, "Swing your sickle and reap, for the time has come for you to harvest; the earth's crop is fully ripe."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one seated on the cloud swung his sickle over the earth, and the harvest of the earth was gathered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then another angel emerged from the heavenly temple, holding a sharp sickle in his hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then another angel emerged from the altar, who had authority over fire. He called out in a loud voice to the one who held the sharp sickle, saying, "Swing your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of grapes from the earth's vine, for its grapes are fully ripe."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the angel swung his sickle over the earth, harvested the vine of the earth, and threw its grapes into the great winepress of God’s wrath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The winepress was trampled outside the city, and blood flowed from it, rising as high as the horses’ bridles, extending for a distance of sixteen hundred furlongs.</span></p>






</body></html>