<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\slv0pf.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b108d5ce-1220-266a-d5b8-b12ab08c6562" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004259"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Aaron, "You, your sons, and your father’s household with you will be responsible for any wrongdoing related to the sanctuary. And you and your sons with you will bear the responsibility for any failures in your priestly duties."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004260"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Also, bring your relatives from the tribe of Levi, your father’s tribe, to join you and assist you. They will serve alongside you, but you and your sons with you are to carry out the duties before the tabernacle of testimony.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004261"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall carry out your responsibilities and the duties related to the entire tabernacle. However, they must not approach the sacred vessels or the altar, so that neither they nor you will die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004262"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall be assigned to assist you and carry out the duties of the tent of meeting, performing all the tasks related to the tabernacle. However, no unauthorized person may approach you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004263"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must carefully maintain the responsibilities of the sanctuary and the duties of the altar, so that no further anger will come upon the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004264"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I have chosen your fellow Israelites, the Levites, from among all the people of Israel. They are given to you as a special gift dedicated to the LORD, assigned to carry out the work of serving in the Tabernacle of Meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004265"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you and your sons with you shall maintain your priestly duties concerning everything related to the altar and the area behind the veil. You are to serve in this capacity, for I have given you the priesthood as a sacred responsibility and a gift. Any unauthorized person who approaches shall be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004266"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Aaron, "Listen, I have also entrusted you with the responsibility of My raised offerings, including all the sacred contributions from the Israelites. I have given these to you and your sons as a permanent portion, because of your anointing as priests. This is a lasting ordinance."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004267"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This portion shall belong to you from the most sacred offerings, set apart from what is burned: every grain offering of theirs, every sin offering of theirs, and every guilt offering of theirs, which they present to me, shall be most holy for you and your sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must eat it in the most sacred place; every male is to partake of it. It is to be treated as holy for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This portion belongs to you: the contribution of their gifts, along with all the wave offerings presented by the Israelites. I have given these to you, your sons, and your daughters as a permanent regulation. Anyone in your household who is ceremonially clean may partake of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have given to you the finest of the oil, the choicest of the wine, and the firstfruits of the grain—the best portions of all these offerings that the people present to the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whatever first ripens in the land, which they bring to the LORD, will belong to you. Everyone in your household who is ceremonially clean may eat from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Everything set apart as holy in Israel shall belong to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every firstborn creature, whether human or animal, that opens the womb and is presented to the LORD shall belong to you. However, you must redeem the firstborn of humans, and you must also redeem the firstborn of unclean animals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must redeem those who are to be redeemed from one month old, according to your valuation, for the price of five shekels, measured by the sanctuary shekel, which is equivalent to twenty gerahs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you must not redeem the firstborn of a cow, the firstborn of a sheep, or the firstborn of a goat; they are sacred. You shall sprinkle their blood on the altar and burn their fat as an offering made by fire, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The meat of these offerings shall belong to you, just as the breast that is waved and the right thigh are yours.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the sacred offerings that the people of Israel present to the LORD, I have given to you, along with your sons and daughters, as a permanent portion. This is an everlasting ordinance. It is an enduring covenant of salt before the LORD, established for you and your descendants after you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004278"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Aaron, "You will not receive any inheritance in their land, nor will you have a portion among them. I am your portion and your inheritance among the people of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004279"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I have assigned to the descendants of Levi all the tithes in Israel as their inheritance, in return for the work they perform—the work of serving in the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004280"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From now on, the Israelites must not approach the tabernacle of meeting, or they will incur guilt and face death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites, however, shall be responsible for the service of the tabernacle of meeting, and they shall bear the consequences of their iniquity. This shall be a permanent statute throughout your generations: among the Israelites, they shall have no inheritance of land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004282"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the tithes of the Israelites, which they present as a raised offering to the LORD, I have assigned to the Levites as their inheritance. That is why I have declared to them, "They shall not receive any inheritance among the Israelites."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Levites and tell them this: When you receive the tithes from the Israelites, which I have given to you as your inheritance, you must present a special offering to the LORD from it—a tenth of the tithe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your contribution of this offering will be considered as if it were grain from the threshing floor or the full produce of the winepress. It will be accounted to you in the same way, as a sacred gift set apart for the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, you must present a special offering to the LORD from all the tithes you receive from the Israelites. From these tithes, you are to give the LORD’s portion as a special offering to Aaron the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From all the offerings you present, you shall set apart every contribution dedicated to the LORD, selecting the finest portion—the consecrated part—from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you shall say to them: When you have set aside the best portion from it, then it shall be considered for the Levites as the produce of the threshing floor and as the produce of the winepress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You and your households may eat it in any place, for it is your compensation for your work in the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will not incur guilt because of it, once you have set aside the best portion from it. Nor shall you defile the sacred offerings of the Israelites, or else you will face death.</span></p>






</body></html>