<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 37</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\slyqjr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:408dc5f3-8f2e-f6af-2113-19845d23e10d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 37</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, became king in place of Coniah, the son of Jehoiakim. Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, had appointed him to rule over the land of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, neither he, nor his officials, nor the people of the land listened to the words of the LORD, which He spoke through the prophet Jeremiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Zedekiah sent Jehucal, the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah, the son of Maaseiah the priest, to the prophet Jeremiah with this message: "Please, pray to the LORD our God on our behalf."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeremiah continued to move freely among the people, coming and going as he pleased, for he had not yet been confined to prison.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pharaoh’s army marched out of Egypt, and when the Chaldeans who were besieging Jerusalem received news of their advance, they withdrew from Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to the prophet Jeremiah, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: Tell the king of Judah, who sent you to seek my counsel, this message: Behold, Pharaoh’s army, which has come out to assist you, will turn back and return to Egypt, to their own land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Chaldeans will return and wage war against this city, capture it, and set it ablaze with fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Do not deceive yourselves by thinking, "The Babylonians will surely leave us," for they will not depart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if you had defeated the entire army of the Chaldeans who are fighting against you, and only wounded men remained among them, they would still rise up from their tents and burn this city with fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now it happened that when the army of the Chaldeans withdrew from Jerusalem because they were afraid of Pharaoh's army,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeremiah left Jerusalem to go to the land of Benjamin, intending to separate himself there among the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Jeremiah was passing through the Gate of Benjamin, a captain of the guard named Irijah, the son of Shelemiah and grandson of Hananiah, was stationed there. He seized Jeremiah the prophet and accused him, saying, "You are deserting to the Chaldeans!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeremiah replied, "That is not true; I am not deserting to the Chaldeans." But Irijah would not listen to him. Instead, he seized Jeremiah and brought him to the officials.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the officials became furious with Jeremiah, struck him, and imprisoned him in the house of Jonathan the scribe, which they had designated as a prison.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jeremiah was placed in the dungeon and confined in its cells, he remained there for many days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Zedekiah sent for Jeremiah and had him brought out. The king questioned him privately in his palace, saying, "Is there any message from the LORD?" Jeremiah replied, "There is. You will be handed over to the king of Babylon."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeremiah then said to King Zedekiah, "How have I wronged you, or your officials, or this people, that you have imprisoned me?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Where are those prophets of yours now, who prophesied to you, declaring, "The king of Babylon will not attack you or invade this land"?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I beg you, my lord the king, please listen to my plea. May my request find favor before you, and do not send me back to the house of Jonathan the scribe, for if you do, I will surely die there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Zedekiah gave orders for Jeremiah to be placed in the courtyard of the guardhouse, and he commanded that a daily portion of bread be given to him from the bakers' street, until all the bread in the city was exhausted. So Jeremiah remained in the courtyard of the guardhouse.</span></p>






</body></html>