<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 49</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sm5e23.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:29e8d954-b200-0601-6938-5bd4fec2c97b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 49</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the Ammonites, this is what the LORD says: Does Israel have no sons? Does it lack an heir? Why then has their king taken possession of Gad, and why do his people settle in its cities?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully, for the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will sound the battle cry against Rabbah of the Ammonites. It will become a ruined heap, and its surrounding towns will be set ablaze with fire. Then Israel will take possession of those who once claimed to be its rightful heirs, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wail, O Heshbon, for Ai has been devastated; cry out, you inhabitants of Rabbah, clothe yourselves in sackcloth; mourn and wander about among the walls, for your king will be taken into captivity, along with his priests and his leaders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why do you boast about your valleys, your fertile valley, O unfaithful daughter? You trust in your wealth, saying, "Who can come against me?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, I will cause terror to come upon you, declares the Lord GOD of hosts, from all those who surround you. Each of you will be driven out, fleeing straight ahead, with no one to gather or protect those who wander aimlessly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, I will restore the fortunes of the Ammonites, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning Edom, this is what the Lord of Hosts says:  Has wisdom vanished from Teman? Has sound judgment disappeared from the discerning? Has their wisdom been completely lost?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Run away, retreat, and settle in remote places, you who live in Dedan, for I will bring disaster upon Esau—the time has come for me to punish him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If grape harvesters came to you, would they not leave behind some grapes for gleaning? If thieves came by night, would they not destroy only until they had taken enough?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have stripped Esau bare; I have exposed his hidden places, and he will not be able to conceal himself. His descendants are destroyed, along with his relatives and neighbors, and he is no more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Leave your fatherless children in my care; I will keep them alive. And let your widows place their trust in me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says: "Look, those who were not destined to drink from the cup of judgment have certainly drunk from it. So how can you, who are guilty, expect to escape punishment? You will not go unpunished; you will surely drink from it as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares, "I have made a solemn vow by my own name that Bozrah will be turned into a desolate ruin, an object of shame, a barren wasteland, and a symbol of cursing. All its surrounding cities will become everlasting ruins."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have received a message from the LORD, and a messenger has been sent to the nations, declaring, "Assemble yourselves and march against her; prepare for battle and rise up to confront her."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for I will reduce you to insignificance among the nations, and you will be looked down upon by all people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your own fears have misled you, and the arrogance of your heart, O you who live in the rocky cliffs, who occupy the heights of the hill. Even if you build your nest as high as the eagle’s, I will bring you down from there, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Edom will also become a desolate wasteland. Everyone who passes by it will be shocked and appalled, and they will whistle in dismay at all the disasters that have befallen it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as in the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah and their neighboring towns, declares the LORD, no one will remain there, nor will any human being live in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, he will rise up like a lion from the thickets along the Jordan, charging against the secure dwelling place. But I will swiftly drive him away from it. Who is the chosen one that I might appoint to lead her? For who is like me? Who can summon me to account? And who is the shepherd who can stand firm before me?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen to the counsel of the LORD, which He has determined against Edom, and to His plans, which He has devised against the people of Teman: Even the weakest among the flock will drag them away; He will surely make their dwelling places desolate because of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The earth trembles at the sound of their downfall; the cry of their collapse echoes as far as the Red Sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, he will rise up and soar like an eagle, spreading his wings over Bozrah. On that day, the courage of Edom’s mighty warriors will fail, and their hearts will become like the heart of a woman in labor—filled with anguish and fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning Damascus: Hamath and Arpad are dismayed, for they have received troubling news. Their courage has failed; there is deep distress like the restless sea—it cannot find peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Damascus has grown weak and is turning to flee; terror has gripped her. Anguish and sorrow have overtaken her like a woman in labor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How can the city once filled with praise now lie deserted, the city that was my delight!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, her young men will fall dead in her streets, and all her warriors will be destroyed on that day, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will ignite a fire within the walls of Damascus, and it will devour the palaces of Ben-hadad.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding Kedar and the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, will strike down, this is what the LORD says: "Rise up, advance against Kedar, and plunder the people of the east."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will seize their tents and their flocks; they will carry off their tent coverings, all their possessions, and their camels. And they will shout to them, "Terror is all around!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Run away, escape to a distant place, and hide yourselves in remote areas, you who live in Hazor, declares the LORD. For Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, has made plans against you and devised a scheme to bring you harm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Rise up and go against the prosperous nation that lives in complacency," declares the LORD, "a people who have no gates or bars to protect them, who dwell in isolation and security."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their camels will become plunder, and their vast herds of livestock will be taken as spoil. I will scatter to every wind those who dwell in the farthest reaches, and I will bring disaster upon them from every direction, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hazor will become a haunt for jackals, a desolate wasteland forever. No one will live there, nor will any human being ever settle in it again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message from the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, at the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah. The LORD declared:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts declares: "Take note, I will shatter the bow of Elam, the very source of their strength."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring the four winds from the four corners of the heavens against Elam and scatter its people in every direction. There will be no nation where the exiles of Elam will not go.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will fill Elam with terror in the presence of their enemies and before those who seek to take their lives. I will bring disaster upon them, even my burning fury, declares the LORD. I will pursue them with the sword until I have completely destroyed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will establish my throne in Elam, and from there I will bring an end to its king and its leaders, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, in the days to come, I will restore the fortunes of Elam, declares the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>