<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sm6kze.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f2f30631-6761-c65d-98d7-242e611f4857" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Israel had made a solemn oath at Mizpah, declaring, "None of us will give his daughter in marriage to a man from the tribe of Benjamin."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people gathered at the house of God and remained there until evening in the presence of God. They raised their voices and wept bitterly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "O LORD, God of Israel, why has this happened in Israel? Why is there now one tribe missing from Israel?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, the people got up early and built an altar there. They presented burnt offerings and peace offerings to the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites said, "Is there anyone from all the tribes of Israel who did not come up with the assembly to the LORD?" For they had sworn a solemn oath against anyone who did not come up to the LORD at Mizpah, declaring, "That person must certainly be put to death."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites grieved deeply for their brother Benjamin and said, "Today, one tribe has been cut off from Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What should we do to provide wives for those who remain, since we have made a solemn vow to the LORD that we will not give them any of our daughters as wives?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They asked, "Is there any tribe of Israel that did not come up to Mizpeh to gather before the LORD?" And indeed, no one from Jabesh-gilead had come to the camp or joined the assembly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people were counted, and it was discovered that none of the residents of Jabesh-gilead were present among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The assembly sent twelve thousand of their most courageous men and gave them this command: "Go and strike down the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the sword, including the women and children."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what you must do: You are to completely destroy every male and every woman who has had sexual relations with a man.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They discovered among the people of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young women who had never been intimate with a man. These women were brought to the camp at Shiloh, located in the land of Canaan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire assembly sent messengers to speak to the people of Benjamin who were at the rock of Rimmon, offering them terms of peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the tribe of Benjamin returned, and the Israelites provided them with wives from the women of Jabesh-gilead who had been spared. However, even with these, there were not enough wives for all of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people grieved deeply for the tribe of Benjamin, because the LORD had caused a division among the tribes of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the leaders of the community said, "What should we do to provide wives for the men who remain, since the women of Benjamin have been wiped out?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "There must be a way for the survivors of Benjamin to receive an inheritance, so that a tribe of Israel is not completely wiped out."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, we cannot give them wives from our daughters, for the people of Israel have sworn an oath, saying, "Cursed is anyone who gives a wife to Benjamin."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they said, "Look, there is an annual festival of the LORD in Shiloh, held in a place located north of Bethel, east of the road that goes up from Bethel to Shechem, and south of Lebonah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, they instructed the people of Benjamin, saying, "Go and set an ambush in the vineyards."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, pay close attention: when the young women of Shiloh come out to join in the dancing, you should come out from the vineyards, and each of you seize a wife for yourself from the daughters of Shiloh. Then return to the land of Benjamin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when their fathers or brothers come to us to protest, we will say to them, "Show them favor on our behalf, because we did not secure a wife for each man during the battle. You did not give them to them at this time, so you are not guilty."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Benjamin did as instructed. They took wives, matching their number, from the women who were dancing and whom they seized. Then they returned to their inheritance, rebuilt the cities, and settled in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the people of Israel left that place, each returning to their own tribe and family. They went out from there, each one to the land they had inherited.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that time, there was no king ruling over Israel, and each person acted according to their own judgment, doing whatever they considered right.</span></p>






</body></html>