<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 30</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sm6qd4.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:eae3d467-9703-927d-e9cc-a034cf4c133e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 30</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: "Write down in a book all the words I have spoken to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for the time is coming, declares the LORD, when I will restore the fortunes of my people Israel and Judah, says the LORD. I will bring them back to the land I gave to their ancestors, and they will take possession of it once more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the words that the LORD spoke concerning Israel and Judah:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says: We have heard a voice of trembling, of terror, and not of peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ask now and consider: Can a man give birth to a child? Why then do I see every man clutching his sides in pain, like a woman in labor, and why are all their faces drained of color?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Oh, how terrible that day will be! There has never been anything like it—a time of unparalleled distress for Jacob's descendants. Yet, despite the severity of that time, they will be rescued from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what will happen on that day, declares the LORD of hosts: I will remove his yoke from your neck and tear apart the chains that bind you. Foreigners will no longer exploit him for their own gain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But they will serve the LORD their God and David their king, whom I will establish for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, do not be afraid, my servant Jacob, declares the LORD; do not be dismayed, O Israel. For I will surely save you from distant lands, and your descendants from the land of their captivity. Jacob will return and live in peace and security, undisturbed, with no one to cause him fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I am with you, declares the LORD, to save you. Even though I will bring a complete destruction upon all the nations where I have scattered you, I will not bring a complete end to you. However, I will discipline you justly, and I will not let you go entirely unpunished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says: Your injury is beyond healing, and your wound is severe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There is no one to advocate for your case, no one to bind up your wounds; you have no remedies for healing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All those who once loved you have forgotten you; they no longer seek you. For I have struck you as an enemy would, with the punishment of a harsh oppressor, because of your great wrongdoing and the increase of your sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why do you cry out over your suffering? Your pain is beyond healing because of the great extent of your wrongdoing. Since your sins have multiplied, I have brought these things upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, all those who consume you will themselves be consumed; and all your enemies, every one of them, will be taken captive. Those who plunder you will become plunder, and I will hand over all who prey on you as their own prey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will bring healing to you and mend your wounds, declares the LORD, because they have called you an outcast, saying, "This is Zion, for whom no one cares."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: I will restore the fortunes of Jacob’s tents and show compassion on his dwelling places. The city will be rebuilt on its ruins, and the palace will stand again as it once did.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From them will come songs of thanksgiving and the joyful voices of those who celebrate. I will increase their numbers, and they will not be few; I will bring them honor, and they will not be insignificant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their descendants will thrive as they did in former times, and their community will be firmly established under my care. I will bring judgment upon all who oppress them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And their leaders will arise from among them, and their ruler will come from their own people. I will bring him near, and he will approach me—for who would dare to commit their heart to draw near to me? says the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be my people, and I will be your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the storm of the LORD is unleashed with fierce anger, an unrelenting tempest. It will descend with anguish upon the heads of the wicked.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The intense wrath of the LORD will not relent until He has accomplished His purpose and fulfilled the intentions of His heart. In the days to come, you will understand this clearly.</span></p>






</body></html>