<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Micah Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sm8n56.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ab6ad785-5a62-aac5-d84d-4da77acd3fec" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Micah Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Assemble yourselves in battle formation, O city of warriors, for a siege has been set against us. They will strike the ruler of Israel with a rod upon the cheek.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you, Bethlehem Ephrathah, though you are small among the clans of Judah, out of you will come forth for me one who is to be ruler over Israel, whose origins are from ancient times, from eternity. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, He will allow them to be abandoned until the time when she who is in labor gives birth. Then the remaining portion of His brothers will return to join the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will stand and shepherd his flock with the strength of the LORD, in the majestic authority of the name of the LORD his God. And they will dwell securely, for now his greatness will extend to the ends of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This man will bring peace when the Assyrian invades our land and marches into our palaces. Then we will raise up against him seven shepherds and eight leaders of the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will devastate the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod at its gateways. In this way, he will rescue us from the Assyrian when he invades our land and marches across our borders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining portion of Jacob will dwell among many nations, like dew sent by the LORD, like gentle rain falling on the grass—dew and rain that do not depend on human effort or wait for the actions of people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining descendants of Jacob will dwell among the nations, surrounded by many peoples. They will be like a lion among the wild animals of the forest, like a young lion among flocks of sheep. When it passes through, it tramples and tears apart, and no one can rescue what it seizes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your power will rise against those who oppose you, and all your enemies will be utterly destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day, declares the LORD, that I will eliminate your horses from among you and bring an end to your chariots.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will destroy the cities within your land and demolish all your fortresses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will remove all forms of witchcraft from your grasp, and you will no longer have any fortune-tellers among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will destroy your carved idols and your sacred pillars from among you, and you will no longer bow down to the works of your own hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will uproot your sacred groves from among you and demolish your cities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will carry out vengeance with intense anger and wrath upon the nations, a punishment unlike anything they have ever experienced.</span></p>






</body></html>