<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Corinthians Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sm9p9g.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:142d1ebf-e600-7a0b-13b0-41a30d8cb241" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Corinthians Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by God’s will, and Timothy our brother, to the church of God that is in Corinth, along with all the holy people throughout the region of Achaia:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May grace and peace be yours, given by God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Praise be to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the compassionate Father and the source of all comfort.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God comforts us in all our hardships, so that we may be able to comfort those who are facing any kind of trouble with the same comfort we ourselves have received from Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as we experience an abundance of Christ's sufferings, so too does our comfort overflow through Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whether we face hardships, it is for your encouragement and ultimate deliverance, as you experience the same kind of sufferings we endure. Or if we receive comfort, it is also for your encouragement and deliverance. In both circumstances, our experiences are meant to strengthen and benefit you, enabling you to persevere and find hope in the midst of trials.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our confidence in you remains firm, for we know that just as you share in the sufferings, you will also share in the comfort.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Brothers and sisters, we do not want you to be unaware of the hardships we faced in Asia. We were utterly overwhelmed, far beyond our ability to endure, to the point where we even despaired of life itself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We felt as though we had received a death sentence within ourselves, so that we would not rely on our own strength, but on God, who raises the dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has rescued us from such a terrible death, and he continues to deliver us. We place our confidence in him, trusting that he will keep on delivering us in the future.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You also join in helping us through your prayers, so that the gift granted to us through the efforts of many may be acknowledged with thanksgiving by many on our behalf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our source of pride and confidence is this: the testimony of our conscience, that we have conducted ourselves in the world with integrity and godly sincerity, not relying on human wisdom but by the grace of God. This has been especially true in our dealings with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We are not writing anything to you beyond what you can read and understand. I am confident that you will fully grasp and affirm these things, even to the very end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have already recognized us in part, that we are a source of your pride and joy, just as you are ours, on the day of the Lord Jesus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">With this confidence, I had planned to visit you earlier, so that you might receive a second blessing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I plan to travel through your region on my way to Macedonia, and then return from Macedonia to visit you again. After that, I hope you will assist me on my journey toward Judea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I made this decision, did I act impulsively or without careful thought? Do I make my plans based on human motives, so that my "yes" and "no" are unreliable or inconsistent?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But as surely as God is faithful, our message to you was not inconsistent or contradictory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was proclaimed among you by us—by me, Silvanus, and Timothy—was not marked by inconsistency or contradiction. In him, there is only certainty and truth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of God’s promises find their fulfillment and affirmation in Him. Through Him, we respond with “Amen,” bringing glory to God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who establishes us together with you in Christ and has anointed us is God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has also marked us as His own, placing the guarantee of the Spirit within our hearts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, I call upon God as a witness concerning my own soul, that I have refrained from coming to Corinth up to this time in order to spare you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We do not seek to control or dominate your faith, but rather to support and contribute to your joy, for it is through faith that you stand firm.</span></p>






</body></html>