<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Zephaniah Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\smegn5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f51c3791-0b81-ba22-8a53-c0b1bc112bd0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Zephaniah Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Woe to the city that is defiled and corrupt, the city of oppression!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She did not heed the voice; she did not accept correction; she did not place her trust in the LORD; she did not draw close to her God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her leaders within her are like roaring lions; her judges are like wolves that prowl at evening; they do not leave anything for the next day—they devour their prey completely by morning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her prophets are reckless and deceitful individuals; her priests have defiled the sacred place and have violated the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The righteous LORD is present within it; He does no wrong. Each morning He faithfully brings His justice to light; He never fails. But the wicked know no shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have brought an end to nations; their fortresses are left in ruins. I have turned their streets into desolate places, with no one passing through. Their cities are completely destroyed, devoid of people, with no inhabitants remaining.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I said, "Surely you will revere me; you will accept correction." Then your dwelling place would not be destroyed, despite whatever discipline I might bring upon you. But instead, you eagerly rose up and corrupted all your actions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, wait for me, declares the LORD, until the day I rise up to act. For my purpose is to gather the nations and assemble the kingdoms, so that I may pour out my wrath upon them—my burning anger. For the whole earth will be consumed by the fire of my zeal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, I will give the people a pure and clear way of speaking, so that all of them may call on the name of the LORD and serve Him together in unity and agreement.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From beyond the rivers of Cush, my worshipers, the descendants of my scattered people, will bring offerings to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, you will no longer feel shame for all the actions by which you have rebelled against me. For I will remove from among you those who take pride in their arrogance, and you will no longer act with pride because of my holy mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also allow a humble and needy people to remain among you, and they will place their trust in the name of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining people of Israel will no longer commit wickedness or speak lies; no deceitful words will be found in their mouths. For they will graze in peace and rest securely, with no one to cause them fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sing joyfully, O people of Zion; shout aloud, O Israel; be glad and rejoice with all your heart, O people of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has removed your judgments; He has driven out your enemy. The King of Israel, the LORD Himself, is among you; you will no longer experience harm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, it will be said to Jerusalem, "Do not be afraid," and to Zion, "Do not let your hands grow weak."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD your God, who is among you, is powerful; He will save you, He will delight in you with great joy; He will be quiet in His love, He will rejoice over you with songs of gladness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will gather those who grieve over the appointed festivals, those who belong to you, for whom the disgrace of it has become a heavy burden.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: At that time, I will deal with all who have oppressed you. I will rescue those who are weak and struggling, and I will bring back those who have been scattered and driven away. I will restore their honor and reputation in every place where they have been disgraced, giving them praise and renown wherever they were once shamed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, I will restore you and gather you together. For I will make you renowned and praised among all the peoples of the earth when I bring back your fortunes before your very eyes, declares the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>