<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\smejzl.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7158d673-5139-d96a-ebec-748f127b0402" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Around that time, King Herod began to persecute some members of the church.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he executed James, the brother of John, by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Herod saw that this action pleased the Jewish leaders, he went further and had Peter arrested as well. (This took place during the Festival of Unleavened Bread.)</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After seizing him, he placed him in prison and handed him over to four squads of soldiers to guard him, intending to bring him before the people after the Passover.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Peter was therefore held in prison, but the church continually offered earnest prayers to God on his behalf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Herod was preparing to bring Peter out for trial, that very night Peter was asleep between two soldiers, bound with two chains, and guards were stationed at the door, keeping watch over the prison.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Suddenly, the angel of the Lord appeared before him, and a bright light filled the prison cell. The angel struck Peter on the side to wake him and said, “Get up quickly!” As Peter rose, the chains fell off his hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel said to him, "Tie your robe around you and fasten your sandals." He did as he was told. Then the angel said, "Wrap your cloak around you and follow me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He went out and followed the angel, unaware that what was happening through the angel was real. Instead, he thought he was seeing a vision.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had passed through the first and second guard posts, they came to the iron gate that leads into the city. This gate opened for them by itself, and they went out and proceeded along one street. Immediately, the angel left him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Peter came to his senses, he said, "Now I am certain that the Lord has sent his angel and rescued me from Herod’s power and from everything the Jewish people were expecting to happen."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After reflecting on the matter, he went to the house of Mary, the mother of John, who was also called Mark. There, many people had gathered together and were praying.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Peter knocked at the gate’s door, a servant girl named Rhoda came to answer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When she recognized Peter’s voice, she was so overjoyed that she did not open the gate but ran inside and announced that Peter was standing at the gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to her, "You are out of your mind." But she kept insisting that it was true. Then they said, "It must be his angel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Peter kept knocking; and when they opened the door and saw him, they were utterly amazed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he motioned to them with his hand to be silent and explained to them how the Lord had led him out of the prison. Then he said, "Go and tell these things to James and the other believers." After that, he left and went to another place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At daybreak, there was considerable confusion and concern among the soldiers about what had happened to Peter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Herod searched for him but could not find him, he interrogated the guards and ordered that they be executed. Then he left Judea and went down to Caesarea, where he stayed for a time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Herod was deeply angered by the people of Tyre and Sidon. However, they came to him united in purpose and, after winning over Blastus, the king’s personal attendant, they sought peace. This was because their region depended on the king’s territory for its food supply.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On a designated day, Herod, dressed in his royal robes, took his seat on the throne and delivered a speech to the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people cried out in amazement, saying, "This is the voice of a god, not of a mere man!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At once, an angel of the Lord struck him down because he did not give glory to God. He was consumed by worms and died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the message of God continued to spread and increase in influence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem after completing their assigned mission, bringing with them John, who was also called Mark.</span></p>






</body></html>