<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nehemiah Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\smhj0k.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9b6963bf-d425-8736-4e72-caabdc81e1fe" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nehemiah Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The account of Nehemiah, the son of Hachaliah. It happened in the month of Chislev, in the twentieth year, while I was in the citadel of Susa,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hanani, one of my brothers, arrived with some men from Judah. I questioned them about the Jewish survivors who had escaped the captivity and about the condition of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They told me, "The few who remain from the captivity in the province are enduring great hardship and disgrace. The wall of Jerusalem lies in ruins, and its gates have been destroyed by fire."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I heard these words, I sat down, wept, and mourned for several days. I fasted and prayed before the God of heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "I humbly ask you, O LORD, God of heaven, the great and awe-inspiring God, who faithfully keeps His covenant and shows steadfast love to those who love Him and obey His commandments."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Please listen attentively and keep your eyes open, so that you may hear the prayer of your servant, which I now offer before you day and night on behalf of the people of Israel, your servants. I confess the sins of the Israelites, which we have committed against you. Both I and my family have sinned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have acted very wickedly toward you and have failed to keep the commandments, the statutes, and the ordinances that you gave to your servant Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Please remember the words you commanded your servant Moses, saying, "If you act unfaithfully, I will scatter you among the nations."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if you return to me, obey my commandments, and faithfully carry them out, even if some of you have been scattered to the farthest reaches of the heavens, I will gather you from there and bring you back to the place I have chosen as the dwelling for my name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are your servants and your people, whom you have delivered by your mighty power and your strong hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Lord, I earnestly ask that you listen attentively to the prayer of your servant and to the prayers of your servants who seek to honor your name. Please grant success to your servant today, and show him favor in the presence of this man. For I served as the king’s cupbearer.</span></p>






</body></html>