<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 33</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\smjyu7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:37eb340b-441d-e190-3013-5c975a921ee7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 33</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah a second time while he was still confined in the courtyard of the guard, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD, the Creator of all things, says—the LORD who shaped it and established it, whose name is the LORD:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Call out to me, and I will answer you. I will reveal to you great and profound things—things you do not yet know.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says concerning the houses of this city and the houses of the kings of Judah, which have been torn down by the siege ramps and the sword:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They come to battle against the Chaldeans, but their purpose is to fill this place with the corpses of those I have struck down in my wrath and fierce anger. For I have turned my face away from this city because of all their wickedness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will bring healing and restoration, and I will heal them completely. I will reveal to them an overflowing measure of peace and truth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will restore the exiles of Judah and the exiles of Israel, and I will rebuild them as they were in former times.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will purify them from all their guilt, which they have incurred by sinning against me, and I will forgive all their wrongdoings, both their sins and their acts of rebellion against me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This place will bring me joy, praise, and honor before all the nations of the earth, when they hear about all the good I have done for it. They will be filled with awe and trembling because of all the goodness and prosperity I bring to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Once again, in this place—which you claim will remain desolate, devoid of people and animals—there will be heard the sounds of life. This will happen in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, places now abandoned, without people, without inhabitants, and without animals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sound of joy and the sound of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voices of those who will say, "Give thanks to the LORD of hosts, for the LORD is good; his steadfast love endures forever." These are the voices of those who will bring offerings of praise into the house of the LORD. For I will restore the fortunes of the land as they were in the beginning, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts declares: Once more, in this place that is now desolate, without people or animals, and in all its cities, there will again be pastures where shepherds will rest their flocks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the cities of the highlands, in the cities of the lowlands, and in the cities of the southern region, in the territory of Benjamin, in the areas surrounding Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, the flocks will once again pass under the care of the one who counts them, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, the time is coming, declares the LORD, when I will fulfill the good promise I made to the house of Israel and the house of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those days and at that time, I will cause a righteous Branch to spring up for David. He will administer justice and righteousness in the land. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In that time, Judah will be delivered, and Jerusalem will live in security. This is the name by which it will be known: "The LORD is our righteousness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says: David will never lack a descendant to sit on the throne of the house of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levitical priests will never lack a man to stand before me to present burnt offerings, to prepare grain offerings, and to perform sacrifices continually.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: If you can nullify my covenant with the day and my covenant with the night, so that day and night no longer come at their appointed times,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In that case, my covenant with David, my servant, could also be broken, so that he would no longer have a descendant to reign on his throne, and my agreement with the Levites, the priests who serve as my ministers, could likewise be nullified.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as the stars of heaven cannot be counted, and the sand of the sea cannot be measured, so too will I greatly increase the descendants of David, my servant, and the Levites who serve me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the message of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have you not considered what these people are saying? They declare, "The two families that the LORD chose, He has now rejected." In this way, they show contempt for my people, claiming that they are no longer a nation in their eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: If my covenant with day and night does not stand, and if I have not established the fixed order of the heavens and the earth,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If I were to reject the descendants of Jacob and my servant David, I would no longer choose any of his offspring to rule over the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. However, I will restore them from their captivity and show them compassion.</span></p>






</body></html>