<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 29</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\smlqjt.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:adc999a6-2c2e-e13d-0152-6199e7e34167" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 29</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the content of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the remaining elders among the exiles, as well as to the priests, the prophets, and all the people whom Nebuchadnezzar had taken captive from Jerusalem to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After King Jeconiah, the queen, the court officials, the leaders of Judah and Jerusalem, the craftsmen, and the metalworkers had been taken away from Jerusalem,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By the hand of Elasah, the son of Shaphan, and Gemariah, the son of Hilkiah—whom Zedekiah, the king of Judah, sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon—with this message:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of Hosts, the God of Israel, says to all the exiles whom I have caused to be taken from Jerusalem to Babylon:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Construct houses and live in them; plant gardens and enjoy their produce.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Marry and have sons and daughters; arrange marriages for your sons, and give your daughters in marriage, so that they too may have sons and daughters. In this way, you will grow in number and not decrease.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Work for the well-being of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the LORD on its behalf, for in its prosperity you will find your own prosperity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, says: Do not let your prophets and fortune-tellers who are among you deceive you, and do not pay attention to the dreams that you yourselves encourage.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are prophesying lies to you in my name; I did not send them, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says: After seventy years are completed in Babylon, I will come to you and fulfill my gracious promise by bringing you back to this place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I am fully aware of the plans I have in mind for you, declares the LORD—plans for well-being and not for harm, to give you a future filled with hope.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you will call upon me, and you will come and pray to me, and I will listen to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will seek me and find me when you search for me with all your heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares: "You will seek Me and find Me when you search for Me with all your heart. I will restore your fortunes and gather you from all the nations and places where I have scattered you. I will bring you back to the land from which I exiled you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you have declared, "The LORD has appointed prophets for us in Babylon,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hear what the LORD declares concerning the king who sits on David’s throne, concerning all the people living in this city, and concerning your relatives who did not go with you into exile:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts declares: "Listen carefully, I will bring upon them the sword, famine, and plague, and I will make them like rotten figs, so spoiled that they cannot be eaten—they are utterly worthless."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will pursue them with the sword, famine, and plague, and I will hand them over to be scattered among all the kingdoms of the earth. They will become an object of cursing, horror, scorn, and disgrace among all the nations where I have driven them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they have not listened to my words, declares the LORD, which I sent to them through my servants the prophets, sending them persistently and urgently; yet you refused to listen, says the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully to the word of the LORD, all you who have been taken into exile, whom I have sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares concerning Ahab, the son of Kolaiah, and Zedekiah, the son of Maaseiah, who are prophesying lies to you in my name: Listen, I will hand them over to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, and he will put them to death before your very eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the exiles of Judah who are in Babylon will invoke a curse upon them, saying, "May the LORD make you like Zedekiah and Ahab, whom the king of Babylon burned in the fire."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they have committed wickedness in Israel, committing adultery with their neighbors' wives and speaking lies in my name—things I never commanded them to do—I am fully aware of it, and I bear witness against them, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall also say to Shemaiah the Nehelamite:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of Hosts, the God of Israel, says: Because you have sent letters in your name to all the people in Jerusalem, to Zephaniah son of Maaseiah the priest, and to all the priests, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has appointed you as priest in place of Jehoiada the priest, so that you may serve as overseers in the house of the LORD. You are to deal with anyone who acts irrationally and claims to be a prophet by confining them in prison and placing them in stocks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So now, why have you not confronted Jeremiah of Anathoth, who is presenting himself as a prophet among you?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this reason, he sent a message to us in Babylon, saying, "This exile will be long: build houses and settle in them; plant gardens and eat their produce."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zephaniah the priest read this letter aloud to Jeremiah the prophet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Send this message to all the exiles, saying, "This is what the LORD says concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite: Because Shemaiah has prophesied to you, even though I did not send him, and he has led you to rely on a lie—"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says: Listen carefully, I will bring punishment upon Shemaiah the Nehelamite and his descendants. Not one of them will remain to live among this people, nor will he witness the good things I will do for my people, declares the LORD. This is because he has encouraged rebellion against the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>