<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 25</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\smmf7k.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:28ffeb40-cb4e-b06f-2d36-50d26dc60ffd" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 25</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, you are my God; I will honor you, I will give praise to your name; for you have accomplished extraordinary deeds; your plans from ancient times are steadfast and true.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have turned a thriving city into a heap of rubble; a fortified city into a crumbling ruin. The palace of foreigners is no longer a city—it will never be rebuilt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the mighty nation will honor you, and the city of the powerful nations will stand in awe of you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you have been a source of strength to the poor, a stronghold for the needy in their distress, a shelter from the storm, a shade from the scorching heat, when the fury of the ruthless strikes like a tempest against a wall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will silence the clamor of foreign nations, like the scorching heat in a parched land. Even their oppressive power will be subdued, like the relief brought by the shade of a cloud. The pride of the ruthless will be humbled and brought low.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On this mountain, the LORD of hosts will prepare for all peoples a lavish banquet, a feast of rich foods, a feast of well-aged wines, of the finest meats and the choicest wines, carefully refined.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And on this mountain, He will remove the shroud that covers all peoples, the veil that envelops all nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will completely destroy death forever; and the Lord GOD will remove every tear from all faces. He will take away the disgrace of his people from the entire earth, for the LORD has declared it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And on that day, it will be proclaimed: "Behold, this is our God! We have waited for Him, and He will deliver us. This is the LORD; we have waited for Him. Let us rejoice and be glad in His salvation!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For on this mountain the hand of the LORD will remain, and Moab will be crushed beneath Him, just as straw is trampled into the manure pile.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will stretch out his hands in their midst, as a swimmer stretches out his hands to swim, and he will bring down their arrogance along with the plunder they have taken.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will tear down the stronghold of your towering walls, bringing them low and leveling them to the ground, reducing them to dust.</span></p>






</body></html>