<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Corinthians Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\smpxrn.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ca792603-e6e7-3952-52d7-07823067def2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Corinthians Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since we have these promises, dearly loved ones, let us purify ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, striving to live in holiness out of reverence for God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Welcome us; we have harmed no one, we have led no one astray, and we have cheated no one.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am not saying this to criticize you, for I have already stated that you hold such a place in our hearts that we would gladly face death or life together with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I speak to you with great openness and confidence, and I take great pride in you. My heart is filled with comfort, and I am overflowing with joy, even in the midst of all our hardships and trials.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When we arrived in Macedonia, our bodies found no relief. We faced conflict on every side—external struggles and internal fears.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, God, who encourages those who are discouraged, encouraged us through the arrival of Titus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Not only by his arrival, but also by the comfort he received from you, which he shared with us—telling of your deep longing, your heartfelt sorrow, and your passionate concern for me—so that my joy was even greater.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even though my previous letter caused you sorrow, I do not regret sending it—though I did feel regret at first. For I now see that the letter brought you grief, but only for a short time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am glad now, not because you were grieved, but because your grief led you to repentance. For you were grieved in a way that reflects God’s will, so that you suffered no harm from us in any way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the sorrow that comes from God leads to a change of heart that results in salvation, a change that brings no regret. But the sorrow of the world produces only death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Consider this very thing: the sorrow you experienced was of a godly kind, and it produced in you a deep sense of earnestness, a desire to clear yourselves, a righteous indignation, a reverent fear, a passionate longing, a fervent zeal, and a determination to see justice done. In every way, you have demonstrated that you are innocent in this matter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, when I wrote to you, it was not primarily for the sake of the one who did wrong, nor for the sake of the one who was wronged, but so that our deep concern for you, in the presence of God, might be made clear to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, we were greatly encouraged by your encouragement. Indeed, we rejoiced even more because of Titus’s joy, for his spirit has been refreshed by all of you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if I have boasted about you to him in any way, I am not ashamed. Just as we have spoken to you with complete honesty, so also our boasting about you to Titus has proven to be true.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his deep affection for you is even greater as he recalls your obedience, how you welcomed him with reverence and profound respect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I am glad that I can have complete confidence in you in every matter.</span></p>






</body></html>