<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\smrjvx.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0b25ed23-9a6c-4afa-f0e4-296ebb763da4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 23</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king sent messengers, and they assembled all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem to come before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king ascended to the house of the LORD, accompanied by all the men of Judah, all the residents of Jerusalem, the priests, the prophets, and the entire population—both the humble and the prominent. There, he read aloud to them all the words of the book of the covenant that had been discovered in the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king stood beside a pillar and made a covenant in the presence of the LORD, pledging to follow the LORD wholeheartedly and to keep His commandments, decrees, and statutes with all his heart and soul. He committed to fulfill the terms of this covenant, which were written in the book. All the people also stood in agreement to uphold the covenant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king ordered Hilkiah the high priest, the priests of the second rank, and the gatekeepers to remove from the temple of the LORD all the objects that had been made for Baal, for the Asherah pole, and for all the heavenly host. He had them taken outside Jerusalem to the fields of Kidron, where they were burned. Then he had the ashes carried to Bethel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He removed the priests who practiced idolatry, whom the kings of Judah had appointed to offer sacrifices on the high places in the cities of Judah and in the areas surrounding Jerusalem. These were the priests who burned incense to Baal, to the sun, to the moon, to the stars, and to all the heavenly bodies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He removed the Asherah pole from the house of the LORD and took it outside Jerusalem to the Kidron Valley. There he burned it, ground it into fine powder, and scattered the powder over the graves of the common people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He demolished the houses of the male shrine prostitutes that were near the temple of the LORD, where the women wove sacred garments for the Asherah pole.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He gathered all the priests from the cities of Judah and desecrated the high places where they had burned incense, from Geba to Beersheba. He also tore down the high places at the gates, specifically those at the entrance of the gate of Joshua, the city governor, which were located on the left side as one entered the city gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the priests who served at the high places did not come up to the altar of the LORD in Jerusalem. Instead, they ate the unleavened bread along with their fellow priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He desecrated Topheth, which is located in the Valley of Ben Hinnom, so that no one could sacrifice their son or daughter by passing them through the fire in honor of Molech.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He removed the horses that the kings of Judah had dedicated to the worship of the sun, which were stationed at the entrance to the house of the LORD, near the quarters of Nathan-melech the official, located in the outer courtyard. He also burned the chariots of the sun with fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king demolished the altars that were on the roof of the upper chamber of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had constructed, as well as the altars that Manasseh had built in the two courtyards of the house of the LORD. He broke them down, removed them from their places, and threw their dust into the Kidron Valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king desecrated the high places that were east of Jerusalem, located to the south of the Mount of Corruption. These high places had been built by Solomon, the king of Israel, for Ashtoreth, the detestable goddess of the Sidonians; for Chemosh, the detestable god of the Moabites; and for Milcom, the detestable god of the Ammonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shattered the idols, cut down the sacred groves, and filled those places with human bones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the altar at Bethel and the high place that Jeroboam son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin, had built—both the altar and the high place—he tore down. He burned the high place, crushed it into fine powder, and set the Asherah pole on fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Josiah turned around, he noticed the tombs that were on the mountain. He sent men to remove the bones from the tombs and burned them on the altar, thereby defiling it. This was done in accordance with the word of the LORD that the man of God had proclaimed when he declared these things.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he asked, "What is this monument I see?" The people of the city replied, "It is the tomb of the man of God who came from Judah and declared these things you have done concerning the altar at Bethel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Leave him undisturbed; let no one disturb his bones." So they left his bones untouched, along with the bones of the prophet who had come from Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Josiah also removed all the shrines at the high places that were in the cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had built to provoke the Lord to anger. He dealt with them just as he had done at Bethel, destroying them completely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He killed all the priests of the high places who were serving at those altars and burned human bones on them. Afterward, he returned to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king issued a command to all the people, saying, "Observe the Passover to honor the LORD your God, just as it is written in the book of this covenant."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, no Passover like this had been celebrated since the days of the judges who ruled Israel, nor during all the days of the kings of Israel or the kings of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eighteenth year of King Josiah’s reign, this Passover was celebrated in honor of the LORD in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, Josiah removed all those who practiced divination, consulted spirits, and engaged in sorcery, as well as the household idols, carved images, and all other detestable things that were found in the land of Judah and in Jerusalem. He did this to fulfill the requirements of the law written in the scroll that Hilkiah the priest discovered in the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was no king like him before him, who turned to the LORD with all his heart, with all his soul, and with all his strength, in accordance with the entire law of Moses. Nor has any king like him arisen since.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the LORD did not turn away from the intensity of His great wrath, which burned against Judah because of all the offenses that Manasseh had committed to provoke Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declared, "I will banish Judah from my presence, just as I banished Israel. I will reject this city of Jerusalem, which I once chose, and the temple of which I said, 'My name will reside there.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Josiah and all his accomplishments, are they not recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the reign of King Josiah, Pharaoh Necho, the king of Egypt, marched to the Euphrates River to confront the king of Assyria. King Josiah went out to meet him in battle. However, when they faced each other at Megiddo, Pharaoh Necho killed Josiah after seeing him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His servants transported his body in a chariot from Megiddo to Jerusalem and buried him in his own tomb. Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz, the son of Josiah, anointed him, and appointed him as king in place of his father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he became king, and he ruled for three months in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah from Libnah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed actions that were wicked in the eyes of the LORD, following the same sinful ways as his ancestors had done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh Necho took him captive and bound him in chains at Riblah in the land of Hamath to prevent him from reigning in Jerusalem. Additionally, he imposed a tribute on the land of one hundred talents of silver and one talent of gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh Necho appointed Eliakim, the son of Josiah, as king in place of his father Josiah. He changed Eliakim’s name to Jehoiakim and took Jehoahaz away. Jehoahaz was brought to Egypt, where he died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoiakim handed over the silver and gold to Pharaoh, but to meet Pharaoh's demand, he imposed a tax on the land. He collected the silver and gold from the people of the land, requiring each person to contribute according to their assessed amount, in order to deliver it to Pharaoh Necho.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he ruled for eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Zebudah, the daughter of Pedaiah from Rumah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed actions that were wicked in the eyes of the LORD, following the same sinful ways as his ancestors had done.</span></p>






</body></html>