<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sms2i2.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2dcca485-571a-a432-ce84-5ba79d99cd03" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat died and was buried with his ancestors in the City of David. His son Jehoram succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He had brothers, the sons of Jehoshaphat: Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azariah, Michael, and Shephatiah. All of these were the sons of Jehoshaphat, the king of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their father gave them generous gifts of silver, gold, and valuable possessions, along with fortified cities in Judah. However, he gave the kingdom to Jehoram because he was the firstborn.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jehoram ascended to the throne of his father, he consolidated his power and executed all his brothers with the sword, as well as several of the leaders of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoram was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he ruled for eight years in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He followed the ways of the kings of Israel, just as the house of Ahab had done, because he had married Ahab’s daughter. He committed what was evil in the sight of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nevertheless, the LORD chose not to destroy the house of David, because of the covenant He had established with David and the promise He had made to provide a lasting light for him and his descendants forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During his reign, the Edomites rebelled against the rule of Judah and established their own king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jehoram set out with his officials and all his chariots. He rose up during the night and attacked the Edomites, who had surrounded him and the commanders of his chariots.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the Edomites rebelled against Judah's rule, and they have remained independent ever since. During the same period, Libnah also revolted against his authority because he had abandoned the LORD, the God of his ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, he built shrines on the hills of Judah and led the people of Jerusalem into idolatry, enticing even the people of Judah to participate in these sinful practices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A message came to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, "This is what the LORD, the God of your ancestor David, declares: Because you have not followed the ways of your father Jehoshaphat or the ways of Asa, king of Judah,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you have followed the ways of the kings of Israel and have caused Judah and the people of Jerusalem to engage in idolatry, just as the house of Ahab led Israel into unfaithfulness. Moreover, you have killed your own brothers, members of your father’s family, who were better men than you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: The LORD will strike your people, your children, your wives, and all your possessions with a severe and devastating plague.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will suffer from a severe and debilitating illness affecting your intestines, causing them to waste away and eventually protrude from your body as the sickness progresses day by day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the LORD incited the Philistines and the Arabians who lived near the Cushites to rise up against Jehoram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They invaded Judah, broke through its defenses, and took away all the wealth found in the king’s palace. They also captured his sons and his wives, leaving him with no son except Jehoahaz, his youngest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After all these events, the LORD struck him with a severe and incurable illness in his intestines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As time went on, after two years had passed, his intestines came out because of his illness, and he died from severe diseases. His people did not honor him with a funeral fire, as they had done for his ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he ruled in Jerusalem for eight years. He passed away without being mourned or honored. Although he was buried in the City of David, he was not laid to rest in the tombs of the kings.</span></p>






</body></html>