<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Daniel Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\smv5n8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b298ecff-a1ca-6a66-e700-8a45b72c77cd" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Daniel Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the third year of King Belshazzar's reign, a vision appeared to me, Daniel, following the one that had come to me earlier.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In a vision, I saw myself at Shushan, in the palace located in the province of Elam. As I looked, I found myself standing by the Ulai River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I raised my eyes and looked, and there before the river stood a ram with two horns. Both horns were tall, but one was taller than the other, and the taller one had grown up last.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I observed the ram charging westward, northward, and southward, so that no other beasts could stand against him. No one was able to rescue anything from his power, for he acted as he pleased and grew exceedingly powerful.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As I was reflecting on this vision, suddenly a male goat appeared, coming from the west and moving swiftly across the entire earth without touching the ground. This goat had a prominent horn between its eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He approached the ram with the two horns, the one I had seen standing by the river, and charged at it with the full force of his power and rage.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I saw him approach the ram, and he became enraged against it. He struck the ram and shattered its two horns. The ram had no strength to withstand him, so he threw it to the ground and trampled it. There was no one who could rescue the ram from his power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the male goat became exceedingly powerful. But when he was at the height of his strength, the large horn was broken off, and in its place, four prominent horns grew up, facing the four directions of the sky.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From one of them emerged a small horn, which grew exceedingly powerful, extending its influence toward the south, the east, and the beautiful land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entity grew exceedingly powerful, even reaching up to the heavenly host. It threw down some of the heavenly beings and stars to the earth and trampled them underfoot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, he exalted himself even against the Prince of the heavenly host, and through him the regular offering was abolished, and the place of his sanctuary was overthrown.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">An army was given to him to oppose the regular offering because of rebellion, and it trampled truth to the ground. This force acted with success and prospered in its schemes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I heard one holy being speaking, and another holy being said to the one who was speaking, "How long will this vision concerning the daily offering, the rebellion that causes desolation, and the surrender of both the sanctuary and the host to be trampled underfoot last?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to me, "For two thousand three hundred days; then the sanctuary will be cleansed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened that when I, Daniel, had seen the vision and sought to understand its meaning, suddenly there appeared before me one who looked like a man.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I heard a man’s voice calling out from between the banks of the Ulai River, saying, “Gabriel, help this man understand the vision.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He approached the place where I was standing, and when he came near, I was filled with fear and fell facedown. But he said to me, "Understand, O mortal, for this vision pertains to the time of the end."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As he was speaking to me, I lay in a deep sleep with my face toward the ground. But he touched me and raised me to my feet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "Listen, I will reveal to you what will happen at the conclusion of this time of wrath, for the end is determined and will come at the appointed time."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ram you saw, which had two horns, represents the kings of Media and Persia.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The shaggy goat represents the king of Greece, and the prominent horn between its eyes symbolizes the first king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When this is broken, four kingdoms will arise from the nation in its place, but they will not possess the same strength or authority as the original.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the final period of their reign, when the wrongdoers have reached their limit, a king with a harsh appearance and a mind skilled in interpreting hidden schemes will rise to power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His authority will be great, but it will not come from his own strength. He will bring about extraordinary destruction, succeed in his endeavors, and carry out his plans. He will destroy powerful leaders and the holy people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through his cunning strategies, he will achieve great success in his schemes. He will exalt himself in his pride and, under the guise of peace, bring destruction to many. He will even rise up against the supreme Ruler of rulers, but he will be shattered—not by human hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The vision concerning the evening and morning that has been revealed is true. Therefore, seal up the vision, for it pertains to events that will occur in the distant future.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I, Daniel, grew weak and was ill for several days. Afterward, I got up and carried out the king’s duties, but I was deeply troubled by the vision, and no one could interpret its meaning.</span></p>






</body></html>