<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\smvgjc.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f5c01174-e1b4-58e1-a244-b3f1a02aa6fc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that came to Jeremiah from the LORD when King Zedekiah sent Pashur, the son of Melchiah, and Zephaniah, the son of Maaseiah the priest, to him, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Please seek the LORD's guidance on our behalf, for Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, is waging war against us. Perhaps the LORD will act toward us in accordance with all His marvelous works, so that Nebuchadnezzar will withdraw from us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeremiah said to them, "This is what you must say to Zedekiah:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: Listen carefully, I will cause the weapons of war that you hold in your hands—those you are using to fight against the king of Babylon and the Chaldeans who are besieging you outside the city walls—to be turned back. I will gather those weapons and bring them into the center of this city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I myself will oppose you with an outstretched hand and a mighty arm, acting in anger, fury, and intense wrath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will strike down the inhabitants of this city, both people and animals; they will perish from a severe plague.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, declares the LORD, I will hand over Zedekiah, the king of Judah, along with his officials, the people, and those who remain in this city—those who have survived the plague, the sword, and the famine—into the power of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, and into the hands of their enemies, yes, into the hands of those who seek their lives. He will strike them down with the sword; he will show no mercy, no compassion, and no pity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to this people you shall say, "This is what the LORD declares: Listen, I am placing before you the path of life and the path of death."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever remains in this city will die by the sword, by famine, or by plague. But whoever goes out and surrenders to the Chaldeans who are besieging you will live; they will escape with their lives as a prize.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I have determined to bring disaster upon this city, not good, declares the LORD. It will be handed over to the king of Babylon, and he will set it on fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the house of the king of Judah, listen to the word of the LORD:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says to the house of David: Administer justice every morning, and rescue the victim of oppression from the hand of the oppressor. Otherwise, my wrath will blaze like an unquenchable fire because of the evil of your deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, you who dwell in the valley, you who rest secure on the rocky plateau—this is the declaration of the LORD. I am against you, you who boast, “Who can come against us? Who can invade our homes?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will hold you accountable for the consequences of your actions, declares the LORD. I will ignite a fire in your forest, and it will consume everything surrounding it.</span></p>






</body></html>