<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sn0vw5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4cab3751-7ecf-e1ee-a9f0-9c1220b546f1" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, there was a worthless man named Sheba, the son of Bichri, a Benjamite. He sounded the trumpet and declared, "We have no share in David, nor any inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to his own home, O Israel!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So all the men of Israel turned away from David and followed Sheba, the son of Bichri. However, the men of Judah remained loyal to their king, accompanying him from the Jordan all the way to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David returned to his house in Jerusalem. The king took the ten women who were his concubines, whom he had left to care for the palace, and placed them under guard. He provided for their needs but did not have intimate relations with them. They remained confined until the day of their death, living as though they were widows.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king said to Amasa, "Gather the men of Judah for me within three days, and make sure you are here yourself."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Amasa went to gather the men of Judah, but he took longer than the time he had been assigned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Abishai, "Sheba, the son of Bichri, will cause us even greater harm than Absalom did. Take your lord’s servants and pursue him, so that he does not secure fortified cities for himself and escape from us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab’s troops, along with the Cherethites, the Pelethites, and all the elite warriors, set out after him. They departed from Jerusalem to pursue Sheba, the son of Bichri.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived at the large stone in Gibeon, Amasa went ahead of them. Joab was wearing his military attire, with a belt securely fastened around his waist, and a sword in its sheath hanging from his side. As he stepped forward, the sword slipped out and fell to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab said to Amasa, "Are you well, my brother?" Then Joab took hold of Amasa's beard with his right hand, as though to kiss him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Amasa did not notice the sword in Joab’s hand. So Joab struck him with it in the abdomen, causing his intestines to spill out onto the ground. He did not strike him a second time, and Amasa died. Then Joab and his brother Abishai continued their pursuit of Sheba, the son of Bichri.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One of Joab’s soldiers stood beside him and declared, “Whoever supports Joab and whoever is loyal to David, let them follow Joab!”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amasa lay in a pool of blood in the middle of the road. When the man noticed that everyone who passed by stopped and stared, he moved Amasa’s body from the road to a field and covered it with a cloth. He did this because he saw that all who came upon the scene were halting in shock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he was taken off the main road, all the people continued on with Joab to pursue Sheba, the son of Bichri.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He traveled through all the tribes of Israel, reaching Abel and Beth-maachah, and gathered all the people of Beri. They assembled together and followed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They arrived and laid siege to him in Abel of Beth-maachah. They built a siege ramp against the city, positioning it in the trench, and all the troops with Joab began battering the wall to bring it down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a wise woman from the city called out, "Listen, listen! Please tell Joab to come closer, so I can speak with him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As he approached her, the woman asked, "Are you Joab?" He replied, "I am." Then she said to him, "Please listen to the words of your servant." He responded, "I am listening."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then she said, "In former times, people used to say, 'They will surely seek guidance at Abel,' and that is how they resolved the matter."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am among those who are peace-loving and loyal in Israel. You are seeking to destroy a city that is like a mother to Israel. Why would you devour the inheritance of the LORD?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab replied, "Absolutely not! I would never consider consuming or destroying anything like that."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The situation is not as you think. A man from the hill country of Ephraim, named Sheba, the son of Bichri, has rebelled against the king, against David. Hand him over to me, and I will withdraw from the city. The woman replied to Joab, "Very well, his head will be thrown over the wall to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the woman, using her wisdom, went to all the people. They cut off the head of Sheba, the son of Bichri, and threw it out to Joab. He then sounded the trumpet, and the troops withdrew from the city, each returning to their own homes. Joab went back to Jerusalem to the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab was in command of the entire army of Israel, while Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was in charge of the Cherethites and the Pelethites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Adoram was in charge of the forced labor, and Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, served as the official recorder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sheva served as the secretary, while Zadok and Abiathar held the office of priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Ira the Jairite also served as a high official in David's administration.</span></p>






</body></html>