<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ecclesiastes Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sn0xe3.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:824779b4-3d27-a15b-ecb7-72d3b868eb85" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ecclesiastes Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who can compare to the wise person? And who truly understands the meaning of things? A person's wisdom illuminates their countenance, transforming the sternness of their expression into something radiant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I advise you to obey the king's command, especially because of the oath you have made before God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be quick to leave his presence, and do not persist in wrongdoing; for he acts according to his will.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When a king speaks, his word carries authority: and who can challenge him by asking, "What are you doing?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever keeps the commandment will experience no harm, and the heart of a wise person understands both the right time and the proper course of action.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because there is a proper time and a divine decree for every matter, the burden of humanity weighs heavily upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he does not know what is to come, for who can inform him of what will happen?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one has authority over the breath of life to keep it from departing, nor does anyone have power over the day of death. There is no escape from this inevitable conflict, and wickedness will not rescue those who are devoted to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have observed all these things and carefully considered every activity that takes place under the sun. There is a time when one person exercises power over another, only to bring harm upon themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so I observed that the wicked, who had come and gone from the sacred place, were buried, and they were forgotten in the city where they had carried out their deeds. This too is meaningless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because the judgment against an evil act is not carried out quickly, the hearts of people become fully determined within them to do evil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if a wicked person commits evil a hundred times and still lives a long life, I am certain that it will go well for those who fear God, who stand in awe of Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, it will not go well for the wicked, nor will they extend their days, which are as fleeting as a shadow, because they do not stand in awe of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There is a troubling and perplexing reality that occurs on the earth: there are righteous people who experience what seems like the fate of the wicked, and there are wicked people who receive what appears to be the reward of the righteous. I observed this and concluded that it, too, is meaningless and deeply frustrating.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I praised joy, because there is nothing better for a person under the sun than to eat, drink, and be glad. This will accompany them in their labor throughout the days of life that God has given them under the sun.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I set my heart to seek wisdom and to observe the activity that takes place on the earth—for there are those who do not rest day or night, their eyes never closing in sleep—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I observed all the work of God, realizing that no one can fully comprehend the actions that take place under the sun. No matter how hard a person may strive to understand it, they will not succeed. Even if a wise person claims to know it, they will still be unable to grasp it fully.</span></p>






</body></html>