<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sn5blr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8eb3b1e9-6015-507f-9dfc-68e7fe0f2627" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Satan rose up against Israel and incited David to take a census of the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David instructed Joab and the leaders of the people, saying, "Go and take a census of Israel, from Beersheba all the way to Dan. Then report the total number to me, so that I may know it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab replied, "May the Lord multiply His people a hundred times more than they are now! But, my lord the king, are they not all your servants? Why then does my lord demand this? Why would you bring guilt upon Israel?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the king's command overruled Joab's objections. As a result, Joab left and traveled throughout all of Israel, eventually returning to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab reported the total count of the people to David. In all Israel, there were one million one hundred thousand men who could wield a sword, and in Judah, there were four hundred seventy thousand men who could wield a sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Joab did not include Levi and Benjamin in the count, for the king’s command was deeply offensive to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And God was angered by this matter; as a result, He struck Israel with judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to God, "I have sinned greatly in what I have done. But now, I beg you, forgive the guilt of your servant, for I have acted very foolishly."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Gad, David's seer, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and deliver this message to David: "This is what the LORD says: I am presenting you with three options. Choose one of them, and I will carry it out for you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Gad went to David and said to him, "This is what the LORD says: Choose for yourself..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must choose one of three judgments: either three years of famine; or three months of being overwhelmed by your enemies, with their sword pursuing you; or three days of the sword of the LORD—a plague in the land—with the angel of the LORD bringing destruction throughout all the territory of Israel. Now, consider carefully and decide what answer I should take back to the one who sent me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Gad, "I am in a terrible dilemma. Let me fall into the hands of the LORD, for his mercy is immense. But do not let me fall into the hands of men."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the LORD sent a plague upon Israel, and seventy thousand men of Israel died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God sent an angel to Jerusalem to bring destruction upon it. As the angel was carrying out this destruction, the LORD looked upon it and relented from the calamity. He said to the angel who was bringing destruction, "Enough; withdraw your hand now." So the angel of the LORD stood by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David looked up and saw the angel of the LORD standing between the earth and the heavens, with a drawn sword in his hand, extended over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders of Israel, who were dressed in sackcloth, fell facedown to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to God, "Was it not I who gave the order to count the people? I am the one who has sinned and acted wickedly. But these people, your flock—what have they done? LORD, my God, let your hand fall on me and on my father’s family, but do not bring this disaster on your people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the angel of the LORD instructed Gad to tell David that he should go and build an altar to the LORD on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David went up as Gad had instructed, according to the word that Gad had spoken in the name of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ornan turned around and saw the angel, and his four sons who were with him hid themselves. At that time, Ornan was threshing wheat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As David approached Ornan, Ornan looked up and saw him. He stepped away from the threshing floor and bowed down before David, his face to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David said to Ornan, "Give me this threshing floor, so that I may build an altar to the LORD on it. You must sell it to me at its full value, so that the plague may be stopped from afflicting the people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ornan said to David, "Take it for yourself, and let my lord the king do whatever seems right to him. Look, I also give you the oxen for burnt offerings, the threshing tools for firewood, and the wheat for the grain offering—I give it all to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King David said to Ornan, "No, I insist on paying the full price for it. I will not take what belongs to you for the Lord, nor will I offer burnt offerings that cost me nothing."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David paid Ornan six hundred shekels of gold, weighed out in full, for the site.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David constructed an altar there to the LORD and presented burnt offerings and fellowship offerings. He called out to the LORD, and the LORD responded to him by sending fire from heaven upon the altar of burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the LORD gave the command to the angel, who then returned his sword to its sheath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, when David realized that the LORD had responded to him at the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, he offered sacrifices there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the tabernacle of the LORD, which Moses had constructed in the wilderness, along with the altar of burnt offering, was located at the high place in Gibeon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But David could not approach it to seek guidance from God, for he was filled with fear because of the sword wielded by the angel of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David declared, "This is the house of the LORD God, and this is the altar for the burnt offerings of Israel."</span></p>






</body></html>