<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 25</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sn6ir4.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8fff814d-f823-ee55-05a3-b211e97a2cf0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 25</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of the LORD came to me once more, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, direct your attention toward the Ammonites and declare a prophecy against them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and speak to the Ammonites, saying, "Listen to the word of the Lord GOD. This is what the Lord GOD says: Because you gloated and said, 'Aha!' over my sanctuary when it was defiled, and over the land of Israel when it was laid waste, and over the house of Judah when they were taken into exile,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will hand you over to the people of the east as their possession. They will establish their palaces within you and make their homes among you. They will consume your produce and drink the milk of your flocks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will turn Rabbah into a place for camels to rest, and the land of the Ammonites into a pasture for flocks. Then you will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the Lord GOD says: Because you have clapped your hands, stomped your feet, and rejoiced in your heart with all your contempt toward the land of Israel,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will now stretch out my hand against you and hand you over as plunder to the nations. I will remove you from among the people and wipe you out from the lands. I will destroy you, and you will come to know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: Because Moab and Seir have said, "Look, the house of Judah is just like all the other nations,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, take note: I will expose the flank of Moab, starting from its cities, from those towns along its borders—the pride of the land—Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kiriathaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will hand over the territory to the people of the east, along with the Ammonites, and give it to them as their possession. As a result, the Ammonites will no longer be remembered among the nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will carry out judgments against Moab, and they will come to know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: Because Edom acted against the house of Judah by seeking revenge, committing great wrongdoing, and taking vengeance upon them,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: I will also stretch out my hand against Edom and eliminate both people and animals from it. I will turn it into a desolate wasteland, from Teman onward, and those in Dedan will fall by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will execute my vengeance upon Edom through the hand of my people Israel. They will act against Edom in accordance with my anger and my wrath, and they will come to understand my vengeance, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: Because the Philistines acted out of revenge and carried out their vengeance with a malicious heart, seeking to destroy out of their ancient hatred,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: "Listen carefully, I will extend my hand against the Philistines, and I will eliminate the Cherethites and wipe out the remaining people along the seacoast."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will carry out great vengeance against them with severe punishments, and they will come to understand that I am the LORD when I bring my judgment upon them.</span></p>






</body></html>