<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sn7qib.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:57bdc7da-047f-68f1-1233-b5ccdfa7a160" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006267"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The portion allotted to the descendants of Joseph extended from the Jordan River near Jericho eastward to the waters of Jericho, and then into the wilderness that rises from Jericho up to the hill country of Bethel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He went out from Bethel toward Luz and continued on to the territory of Archi, reaching as far as Ataroth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It then extends westward to the territory of Japhleti, reaching the border of Lower Beth-horon and continuing to Gezer; its boundary ends at the Mediterranean Sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the descendants of Joseph—Manasseh and Ephraim—received their allotted portion of the inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The territory allotted to the descendants of Ephraim, according to their clans, was as follows: the boundary of their inheritance on the eastern side began at Ataroth-addar and extended to Upper Beth-horon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boundary extended toward the sea to Michmethah on the northern side; then it turned eastward toward Taanath-shiloh, passing by it to the east as far as Janohah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boundary descended from Janohah to Ataroth and Naarath, then reached Jericho, and finally extended to the Jordan River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boundary extended from Tappuah westward to the brook of Kanah, and its endpoint was at the sea. This is the inheritance allotted to the tribe of the descendants of Ephraim according to their clans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cities designated for the descendants of Ephraim were located within the territory allotted to the descendants of Manasseh, including all the cities and their surrounding villages.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They did not drive out the Canaanites who lived in Gezer; instead, the Canaanites continued to live among the people of Ephraim to this very day, serving as forced laborers under tribute.</span></p>






</body></html>