<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sn88kt.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f742a749-8687-f37c-eab4-94da21f8eb2c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twelfth year of Ahaz, king of Judah, Hoshea son of Elah became king in Samaria and ruled over Israel for nine years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed actions that were evil in the sight of the LORD, though not to the same extent as the kings of Israel who had ruled before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shalmaneser, the king of Assyria, advanced against him, and Hoshea became his vassal, paying him tribute.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Assyria discovered that Hoshea had conspired against him, for Hoshea had sent messengers to So, the king of Egypt, and had failed to send the customary tribute to the king of Assyria, as he had done every year before. As a result, the king of Assyria arrested Hoshea and imprisoned him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king of Assyria advanced through the entire land, marched up to Samaria, and laid siege to it for three years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the ninth year of Hoshea's reign, the king of Assyria captured Samaria and deported the people of Israel to Assyria. He settled them in Halah, in Habor along the river Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what happened: The people of Israel sinned against the LORD their God, who had delivered them from the land of Egypt, freeing them from the power of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. Yet they turned to worship other gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They followed the practices of the pagan nations, whom the LORD had driven out before the Israelites, and they adopted the customs of the kings of Israel, which they had established.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Israel secretly committed acts that were wrong in the sight of the LORD their God. They built high places for worship in all their cities, from the smallest watchtower settlements to the largest fortified towns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They erected idols and sacred poles on every high hill and beneath every flourishing tree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There, they burned incense on all the high places, just as the nations whom the LORD had driven out before them had done. They committed evil deeds, provoking the LORD to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They worshiped idols, concerning which the LORD had commanded them, "You must not do such a thing."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nevertheless, the LORD warned both Israel and Judah through all the prophets and seers, saying, "Turn away from your wicked ways and obey my commandments and decrees, in accordance with the entire law that I gave to your ancestors and delivered to you through my servants, the prophets."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Despite this, they refused to listen and instead became stubborn, just as their ancestors had been, who did not trust in the LORD their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They turned away from His decrees and the covenant He had established with their ancestors. They ignored the warnings He had given them and instead pursued worthless idols, becoming as empty as the things they worshiped. They adopted the practices of the surrounding nations, even though the LORD had explicitly commanded them not to follow their ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They abandoned all the commands of the LORD their God and crafted for themselves molten idols—two calves. They also set up a sacred pole, worshiped all the heavenly bodies, and served Baal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They made their sons and daughters pass through the fire, practiced divination and sorcery, and devoted themselves to doing evil in the sight of the LORD, provoking Him to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, the LORD was deeply angered with Israel and removed them from His presence. Only the tribe of Judah remained.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah also failed to keep the commandments of the LORD their God. Instead, they followed the customs and practices that Israel had established.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD turned away from all the descendants of Israel, bringing hardship upon them and handing them over to plunderers, until He had driven them completely out of His presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he tore Israel away from the house of David, and they made Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, king. Jeroboam led Israel away from following the LORD and caused them to commit a grave sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Israel continued to commit all the sins that Jeroboam had committed, and they did not turn away from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Until the LORD banished Israel from His presence, just as He had declared through all His servants, the prophets. So, Israel was taken captive from their own land and exiled to Assyria, where they remain to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Assyria brought people from Babylon, Cuthah, Ava, Hamath, and Sepharvaim, and settled them in the cities of Samaria in place of the Israelites. These newcomers took possession of Samaria and lived in its cities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the start of their settlement there, they did not fear the LORD. As a result, the LORD sent lions among them, which killed some of the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, they addressed the king of Assyria, saying, "The nations you have relocated and settled in the cities of Samaria do not understand the customs of the God of this land. As a result, He has sent lions among them, and they are killing them because they do not know how to honor the ways of the God of this land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Assyria then issued a command, saying, "Take one of the priests whom you brought from there and send him back to live there. Let him teach them the customs and practices of the God of that land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then one of the priests who had been taken captive from Samaria came and settled in Bethel, and he instructed the people on how they should honor and revere the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, each nation created its own gods and placed them in the temples of the high places that the Samaritans had built. Each nation did this in the cities where they lived.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Babylon constructed an idol named Succoth-benoth, the people of Cuth fashioned an idol called Nergal, and the people of Hamath created an idol known as Ashima.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Avites crafted idols of Nibhaz and Tartak, while the Sepharvites sacrificed their children by burning them in fire as offerings to Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they revered the LORD, but they also appointed priests for themselves from among the lowest of the people to serve at the high places. These priests offered sacrifices for them at the shrines located in the high places.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They revered the LORD but also worshiped their own gods, following the customs of the nations from which they had been exiled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To this very day, they continue to follow their old ways. They do not revere the LORD, nor do they live according to His statutes, His ordinances, or the law and commandments that the LORD gave to the descendants of Jacob, whom He named Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD had established a covenant with them and commanded them, saying, "You must not fear other gods, nor bow down to them, nor serve them, nor offer sacrifices to them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the LORD, who delivered you from the land of Egypt with mighty power and an outstretched arm—Him you must revere, Him you must worship, and to Him you must offer sacrifices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must diligently observe and follow forever the statutes, ordinances, laws, and commandments that He has written for you. Do not turn to worship or fear other gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not forget the covenant I have made with you, nor should you fear or worship other gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must revere the LORD your God, and He will rescue you from the power of all your enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they did not listen, but instead continued to act according to their previous ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So these nations revered the LORD, yet they also continued to serve their carved idols. Their descendants, generation after generation, followed the same practices as their ancestors, and they persist in doing so to this very day.</span></p>






</body></html>