<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sn9vsk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ca801ff9-4980-e82b-cd47-abc054f6a6ce" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the nations that the LORD allowed to remain, in order to test Israel through them—specifically, those among the Israelites who had not experienced all the wars of Canaan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This was done so that the generations of the Israelites might learn and understand warfare, especially those who had no prior experience with it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Specifically, the five rulers of the Philistines, all the Canaanites, the Sidonians, and the Hivites who lived in the mountains of Lebanon, from Mount Baal-hermon to the entrance of Hamath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The purpose of these nations was to test Israel, to determine whether they would obey the commandments of the LORD, which He had given to their ancestors through Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites lived among the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They married their daughters to foreign men and took foreign women as wives for their sons, and they began to worship the gods of those nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites committed evil in the eyes of the LORD. They abandoned the LORD their God and worshiped the Baals and the Asherahs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD’s anger burned against Israel, and He handed them over to the power of Cushan-Rishathaim, the king of Mesopotamia. As a result, the Israelites were subjected to Cushan-Rishathaim’s rule for eight years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people of Israel cried out to the LORD, the LORD appointed a deliverer for them, who saved them. This deliverer was Othniel, the son of Kenaz, who was Caleb’s younger brother.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Spirit of the LORD came upon him, and he took on the role of judging Israel. He went out to battle, and the LORD handed over Chushan-rishathaim, the king of Mesopotamia, into his power. His strength overcame Chushan-rishathaim, and he achieved victory over him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land enjoyed peace for forty years. Then Othniel, the son of Kenaz, passed away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once again, the Israelites did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. Because of their wrongdoing, the LORD empowered Eglon, the king of Moab, to rise up against Israel. This happened as a consequence of their evil deeds in the LORD's eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He assembled the Ammonites and Amalekites, and they marched out to attack Israel. They defeated them and took control of the city of palm trees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites were subject to Eglon, the king of Moab, for eighteen years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Israelites cried out to the LORD, the LORD raised up a deliverer for them: Ehud, the son of Gera, a Benjamite, who was left-handed. Through him, the Israelites sent tribute to Eglon, the king of Moab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ehud crafted a double-edged dagger, about a cubit in length, and fastened it securely under his clothing on his right thigh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He brought the tribute to Eglon, the king of Moab. Now Eglon was an exceedingly obese man.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had finished presenting the offering, he dismissed the people who had carried it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he himself turned back from the stone quarries near Gilgal and said, "I have a confidential matter to discuss with you, O king." The king replied, "Keep it quiet." Then all those who were standing around him withdrew and left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ehud approached him while he was sitting in a private upper room, which he used exclusively for himself. Ehud said, "I have a message from God for you." At this, the king rose from his seat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ehud reached out with his left hand, took the dagger from his right thigh, and plunged it into the king's belly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The handle also went in after the blade, and the fat closed around the blade, so that he could not pull the dagger out of his belly; and the filth came out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Ehud went out through the porch, closed the doors of the upper room behind him, and locked them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Ehud had left, his servants came and saw that the doors of the upper room were locked. They said, "He must be relieving himself in the inner chamber."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They waited until they were embarrassed, for the doors of the upper room remained closed. So they took a key and unlocked them, only to find their master lying dead on the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ehud fled while they delayed, and he went beyond the stone quarries, escaping to Seirath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrived, he sounded a trumpet on the mountain of Ephraim, and the Israelites came down from the hill country to join him, with him leading the way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to them, "Follow me, because the LORD has given your enemies, the Moabites, into your hands." So they followed him, captured the crossings of the Jordan River leading to Moab, and did not allow anyone to pass through.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, they killed about ten thousand Moabite men, all of them strong and courageous warriors; not a single man escaped.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So on that day, Moab was brought under the control of Israel. After this, the land experienced peace for eighty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After him came Shamgar, the son of Anath, who killed six hundred Philistines using an ox goad. In this way, he also delivered Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>