<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\snab6r.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f8187ffd-6e49-ddd3-91f2-d66effcbb7fa" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the sixth year, on the fifth day of the sixth month, as I was sitting in my house with the elders of Judah seated before me, the hand of the Lord GOD came powerfully upon me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I looked, and there before me was a figure resembling the appearance of fire. From the waist down, it looked like fire, and from the waist up, it had the appearance of a radiant glow, like the gleam of polished amber.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a hand reached out and grasped me by a lock of my hair. The Spirit lifted me up between the earth and the heavens and brought me, in divine visions, to Jerusalem, to the entrance of the inner gate that faces north. There stood the idol of jealousy, the very thing that provokes the Lord’s wrath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And look, the glory of the God of Israel was present there, just as I had seen in the vision on the plain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "Son of man, look toward the north with your eyes." So I looked toward the north, and there, to the north of the gate of the altar, I saw this idol that provokes jealousy at the entrance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He continued speaking to me, saying, "Son of man, do you see what they are doing? The terrible and detestable acts that the house of Israel is committing here, driving me far away from my sanctuary? But look again, and you will see even greater abominations."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He led me to the entrance of the courtyard, and as I looked, I saw a hole in the wall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "Son of man, dig into the wall." So I dug into the wall, and there I found a doorway.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to me, "Go in and see the detestable and wicked things they are doing here."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I entered and looked, and there before me were all kinds of images of crawling creatures, detestable animals, and every idol of the house of Israel, carved into the wall all around.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Seventy elders of the house of Israel stood before them, and among them stood Jaazaniah, the son of Shaphan. Each man held a censer in his hand, and a dense cloud of incense rose up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "Mortal, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in secret, each one in the private rooms of their own imaginations? For they say, 'The LORD does not see us; the LORD has abandoned the earth.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also said to me, "Turn around once more, and you will see even greater detestable things that they are doing."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he led me to the entrance of the gate of the LORD's temple that faced north, and there I saw women sitting and weeping for Tammuz.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "Have you seen this, O mortal? Turn back again, and you will see even greater detestable things than these."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He led me into the inner courtyard of the LORD’s temple, and there, at the entrance of the temple of the LORD, between the portico and the altar, I saw about twenty-five men. They had their backs turned toward the temple of the LORD and their faces toward the east, and they were bowing down in worship to the sun in the east.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then He said to me, "Have you seen this, O mortal? Is it a trivial matter to the house of Judah that they commit the detestable acts they are doing here? For they have filled the land with violence and have repeatedly provoked Me to anger. And now, they even flaunt their defiance by holding up their offensive gestures before Me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will act in wrath: my eye will show no mercy, nor will I have compassion. Even if they cry out to me with a loud voice, I will not listen to them.</span></p>






</body></html>