<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\snb551.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7ac0998e-62f7-3f9c-1507-3ccd4e96a6ea" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, speak a prophetic message against the prophets of Israel who are prophesying, and say to those who prophesy out of their own imagination: 'Listen to the word of the LORD!'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: "How terrible it will be for the foolish prophets who follow their own imaginations and have seen nothing!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Israel, your prophets are like the foxes in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have not stepped into the breaches, nor repaired the wall for the house of Israel, so that they might stand firm in battle on the day of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have engaged in false visions and deceitful prophecies, declaring, "The LORD says," when the LORD has not sent them. Yet they have led others to place their hope in these lies, claiming that their words would be fulfilled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have you not seen false visions and spoken deceitful prophecies, claiming, "The LORD declares it," even though I have not spoken?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: Because you have spoken empty words and embraced false visions, I am now against you, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will act against the prophets who see false visions and proclaim deceitful messages. They will have no place in the gathering of my people, nor will their names be recorded in the register of the house of Israel. They will not enter the land of Israel, and you will come to understand that I am the Sovereign LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because, indeed, because they have led my people astray, declaring, "Peace," when there was no peace; and when someone built a flimsy wall, others came and plastered it with weak, unstable mortar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell those who cover it with weak plaster that it will collapse: there will be a torrential downpour; and you, O massive hailstones, will fall; and a violent wind will tear it apart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Behold, when the wall collapses, will it not be said to you, “Where is the plaster with which you covered it?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: I will tear it apart with a violent wind in my wrath, and in my anger, I will send a torrential downpour and hailstones of great size to destroy it completely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will tear down the wall you have plastered with weak, untempered mortar, and I will bring it crashing to the ground, exposing its foundation. It will collapse, and you will be destroyed in the midst of it. Then you will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, I will fully unleash my anger against the wall and against those who plastered it with weak, crumbling mortar. I will declare to you: The wall is gone, and so are those who covered it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Specifically, the prophets of Israel who prophesy about Jerusalem and claim to see visions of peace for her—when there is no peace—declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, son of man, direct your attention toward the daughters of your people who prophesy based on their own imaginations, and deliver a prophecy against them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And proclaim this message: Thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the women who sew magic charms onto wristbands and make veils of every size to cover heads, all to ensnare souls! Will you hunt down the souls of my people, yet claim to preserve the lives of those who come to you?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Would you defile my name among my people for mere handfuls of barley and scraps of bread? You condemn to death those who should not die, and you spare the lives of those who should not live, all by deceiving my people with your lies—my people who listen to your falsehoods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: "Listen, I am against the charms and amulets you use to ensnare people's souls, as if you could make them fly away. I will tear these things from your grasp and set free the souls you are trying to trap, the souls you hunt down to control and manipulate."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also tear away your veils and rescue my people from your grasp. They will no longer be in your hands to be pursued and oppressed. Then you will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you have used deceit to grieve the heart of the righteous, whom I have not caused to grieve, and you have encouraged the wicked to persist in their evil ways by promising them life, instead of urging them to turn from their wickedness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you will no longer see false visions or practice deceptive divination, for I will rescue my people from your control. Then you will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>