<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sncpe4.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:24ccf84b-5e54-21b2-34c0-2673f587e8bf" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Go to the palace of the king of Judah and deliver this message there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And proclaim this message: Hear the word of the LORD, O king of Judah, who sits on the throne of David—you, your officials, and your people who pass through these gates.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Carry out justice and righteousness. Rescue those who have been robbed from the hand of the oppressor. Do no wrong or violence to the foreigner, the fatherless, or the widow. Do not shed innocent blood in this place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you truly carry out this action, then kings who sit on David’s throne will enter through the gates of this house, riding in chariots and on horses—they, along with their servants and their people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you refuse to listen to these words, I solemnly declare by my own name, says the LORD, that this house will be reduced to ruins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says concerning the royal house of Judah: "You are like Gilead to me, like the summit of Lebanon; yet I will surely reduce you to a desolate wilderness, to cities that will lie uninhabited."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will summon destroyers against you, each armed with their weapons, and they will cut down your finest cedars and throw them into the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many nations will pass by this city, and each person will ask their neighbor, "Why has the LORD dealt with this great city in such a way?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they will respond, "Because they abandoned the covenant of the LORD their God, worshiped other gods, and bowed down to serve them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not weep for the dead, nor grieve for them. Instead, weep bitterly for the one who is going away, for they will never return, nor will they see their homeland again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says concerning Shallum, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, who succeeded his father Josiah as king and left this place: He will never return here again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, he will die in the land where they have taken him as a captive, and he will never see this land again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for the one who builds their house through injustice and constructs their rooms by wrongdoing—who forces their neighbor to labor without pay and refuses to give them what they have earned for their work!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who says, "I will build myself a spacious house with large rooms," and cuts out windows for it, panels it with cedar, and decorates it with bright red paint.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do you think you can rule simply because you live in luxury, surrounded by cedar? Did not your father eat and drink, yet he also upheld justice and righteousness, and because of this, all went well with him?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He defended the rights of the poor and needy; therefore, things went well for him. Is this not what it means to truly know me? declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But your eyes and your heart are set only on greed, on shedding innocent blood, on oppression, and on committing violence—these are the things you pursue.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says concerning Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah: No one will mourn for him, crying out, “Oh, my brother!” or “Oh, my sister!” No one will grieve for him, saying, “Oh, my lord!” or “Oh, his majesty!”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will be buried like a donkey—dragged away and thrown out beyond the gates of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go up to Lebanon and cry out; raise your voice in Bashan, and shout from the mountain passes, for all your allies have been destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I spoke to you when you were prosperous, but you said, "I will not listen." This has been your way since your youth—you have not obeyed my voice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wind will sweep away all your shepherds, and those you have loved will be taken into captivity. Then you will surely be filled with shame and disgrace because of all your wickedness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O you who dwell in Lebanon, nesting high in the cedars, how pitiful you will be when anguish overtakes you, pain like that of a woman in labor!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As surely as I live, declares the LORD, even if Coniah, the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, were the signet ring on my right hand, I would still tear you away from there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will deliver you into the power of those who seek to take your life, into the power of those you dread—specifically, into the power of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and into the power of the Chaldeans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will drive you out, along with your mother who gave birth to you, to a foreign land where neither of you was born, and there you will die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But to the land to which they long to return, they will not go back.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is this man Coniah a despised and shattered idol? Is he a worthless vessel that no one desires? Why then are he and his descendants cast out and exiled to a land they do not know?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O earth, earth, earth, listen to the word of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Record this man as childless, a man who will not succeed in his lifetime. For none of his descendants will prosper, sitting on the throne of David or ruling again in Judah.</span></p>






</body></html>