<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sngacg.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:08f47e51-876e-94b9-a0b8-c62ad157d83d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Bring Aaron and his sons with you, along with the priestly garments, the anointing oil, a bull for the sin offering, two rams, and a basket of unleavened bread.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Assemble the entire community at the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses did exactly as the LORD had instructed him, and the entire community gathered at the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to the assembly, "This is what the LORD has commanded us to do."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses brought Aaron and his sons forward and washed them with water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he dressed him in the tunic, fastened the sash around him, and clothed him with the robe. He placed the ephod on him and secured it with the skillfully woven band of the ephod, tying it firmly around him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he placed the breastpiece on him, and into the breastpiece he inserted the Urim and the Thummim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He placed the turban on his head, and on the turban, at the front, he fastened the golden plate, the sacred emblem, just as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses took the sacred anointing oil and consecrated the tabernacle and everything inside it, setting them apart as holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He sprinkled some of it on the altar seven times, and he anointed the altar and all its utensils, including the basin and its stand, to consecrate them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron’s head and anointed him, setting him apart as holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses brought Aaron’s sons forward, clothed them in tunics, fastened sashes around them, and placed headpieces on their heads, just as the LORD had commanded him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He presented the bull for the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons placed their hands on the head of the bull designated for the sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He slaughtered the animal, and Moses took the blood. Using his finger, he applied the blood to the horns of the altar on all sides, purifying the altar. Then he poured the remaining blood at the base of the altar and consecrated it, making atonement for it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took all the fat that was on the internal organs, the fatty membrane covering the liver, and the two kidneys along with their fat, and Moses burned them on the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the bull, along with its hide, its flesh, and its dung, was completely burned with fire outside the camp, just as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He presented the ram for the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons placed their hands on the head of the ram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He slaughtered the animal, and Moses took the blood and sprinkled it around the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He divided the ram into its parts, and Moses burned the head, the pieces, and the fat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He washed the inner parts and the legs with water, and Moses burned the entire ram on the altar. It was a burnt offering, a pleasing aroma, a food offering presented by fire to the LORD, just as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he brought forward the second ram, the ram of ordination, and Aaron and his sons placed their hands on the head of the ram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He slaughtered the animal, and Moses took some of its blood and applied it to the lobe of Aaron’s right ear, the thumb of his right hand, and the big toe of his right foot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses then brought forward Aaron’s sons, and he took some of the blood and applied it to the lobe of their right ears, the thumb of their right hands, and the big toe of their right feet. Afterward, Moses sprinkled the rest of the blood around the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took the fat, the entire fat tail, all the fat that was on the internal organs, the membrane covering the liver, the two kidneys with their fat, and the right thigh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the basket of unleavened bread that was placed before the LORD, he took one unleavened loaf, one cake of bread mixed with oil, and one thin wafer. He placed these on top of the fat and the right shoulder of the offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He placed all of it in Aaron’s hands and in the hands of his sons, and he lifted them up as an offering, moving them back and forth before the LORD as a wave offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses took them from their hands and burned them on the altar along with the burnt offering. They served as a consecration, producing a pleasing aroma. It was a fire offering presented to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses took the breast and presented it as a wave offering before the LORD. This portion belonged to Moses from the ram of consecration, as the LORD had commanded him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses took some of the anointing oil and some of the blood that was on the altar, and he sprinkled it on Aaron, on his garments, on his sons, and on their garments as well. In this way, he consecrated Aaron, his garments, his sons, and their garments, setting them apart as holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses instructed Aaron and his sons, "Cook the meat at the entrance to the tent of meeting, and there you are to eat it along with the bread from the basket of consecration, as I have commanded, saying, 'Aaron and his sons are to eat it.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must burn with fire whatever remains of the meat and the bread.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not leave the entrance of the tent of meeting for seven days, until the days of your consecration are completed. For seven days he will consecrate you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As he has done today, so the LORD has commanded to be done, in order to provide atonement for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must remain at the entrance of the tent of meeting day and night for seven days, carrying out the duties assigned by the LORD, so that you do not die. For this is what I have been commanded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron and his sons carried out everything that the LORD had commanded through Moses.</span></p>






</body></html>