<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\snk4bj.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:82793ff6-ebfb-e012-6777-f7600e6ec22a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the year had passed, at the time when kings typically go out to war, Joab led the army’s forces and devastated the land of the Ammonites. He then advanced and laid siege to Rabbah. However, David remained in Jerusalem. Joab attacked Rabbah and brought about its destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David removed the crown from the head of their king and discovered that it weighed a talent of gold. It was adorned with precious stones and was placed on David’s head. He also brought out a vast amount of plunder from the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He led out the people who were in the city and subjected them to harsh labor, cutting them with saws, iron threshing tools, and axes. This is how David treated all the cities of the Ammonites. Afterward, David and all his troops returned to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, war broke out again at Gezer with the Philistines. During this conflict, Sibbechai the Hushathite killed Sippai, who was one of the descendants of the giants. As a result, the Philistines were defeated and brought under control.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once again, war broke out with the Philistines, and Elhanan, the son of Jair, killed Lahmi, the brother of Goliath the Gittite. Lahmi’s spear was as massive as a weaver’s beam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, there was a battle at Gath, where a man of enormous size was present. He had twenty-four fingers and toes in total—six on each hand and six on each foot. He was also descended from the giant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when he taunted and challenged Israel, Jonathan, the son of Shimea and brother of David, struck him down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These were the descendants of the giant from Gath, and they were defeated by David and his warriors.</span></p>






</body></html>