<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Habakkuk Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\snkmoz.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:627e1226-7720-f687-8c77-5772369e2881" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Habakkuk Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will take my stand at the watchpost; I will station myself on the rampart. I will keep watch to see what He will say to me, and how I should respond when I am corrected.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD responded to me, saying, "Write down the vision clearly on tablets, so that whoever reads it may understand it easily and act upon it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The vision is set for a specific time, yet it will ultimately come to pass and not prove false. Even if it seems delayed, wait for it, because it will certainly arrive and not be late.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the one whose heart is prideful is not upright within; but the righteous will live by their faithfulness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, because he is led astray by wine, he is an arrogant man who does not stay at home. His desires are as vast as the grave and as insatiable as death. He is never satisfied, gathering to himself all nations and amassing all peoples.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Will not all these people rise up to speak against him in parables and mocking proverbs, saying, "How terrible it will be for the one who amasses wealth that is not his own! How long will this continue? And how terrible for the one who burdens himself with ill-gotten gain!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Will not those who harm you rise up suddenly, and those who trouble you awaken? Then you will become plunder for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you have plundered many nations, the remaining peoples will plunder you. This will happen because of the bloodshed you caused and the violence you committed against the land, the city, and all who live in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Woe to the one who greedily seeks to enrich his household through wicked schemes, striving to secure his home on high, thinking it will save him from the grasp of disaster!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have brought disgrace upon your household by destroying many people, and in doing so, you have sinned against your own life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the stone will cry out from the wall, and the beam from the woodwork will respond to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tragic is the fate of those who build a city through bloodshed and establish a town by wickedness!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Consider this: Is it not from the LORD of hosts that people toil in the midst of fire, and exhaust themselves for nothing?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the LORD's glory, just as the waters completely cover the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for anyone who gives their neighbor alcohol, pouring it from their flask and making them drunk, just so they can gaze upon their nakedness!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are now covered in shame instead of glory. You too must drink, and your disgrace will be exposed. The cup from the LORD’s right hand will be turned against you, and utter humiliation will pour over your former splendor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the violence done to Lebanon, it will overwhelm you, and the destruction caused by wild animals will terrify you, all on account of human bloodshed and the violence committed against the land, the city, and all who live in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What benefit does a carved image bring, since its maker has shaped it? What use is a cast idol, a false teacher, that its creator trusts in his own workmanship, crafting mute idols that cannot speak?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it is for the one who says to a piece of wood, "Wake up!" or to a silent stone, "Arise, it will teach us!" Look, it is covered with gold and silver, yet there is no life or breath within it at all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD is present in His holy temple; let all the earth remain silent in reverence before Him.</span></p>






</body></html>