<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 28</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\snn2ku.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3fc4c7fc-a3ea-63b4-8be3-fae84a629f0a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 28</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same year, at the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, in the fourth year and the fifth month, Hananiah, the son of Azur, the prophet from Gibeon, spoke to me in the house of the Lord, in the presence of the priests and all the people, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: I have shattered the yoke of the king of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Within two full years, I will restore to this place all the articles of the Lord’s house that Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, took from here and carried away to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will restore Jeconiah, the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and all the exiles of Judah who were taken to Babylon, back to this place, declares the LORD. For I will shatter the power of the king of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the prophet Jeremiah said to the prophet Hananiah in the presence of the priests and all the people who were standing in the house of the LORD,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even the prophet Jeremiah said, "Amen! May the Lord fulfill your words as you have prophesied, that the vessels of the Lord’s house and all those taken captive may be brought back from Babylon to this place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen now to this message I am about to speak in your hearing and in the hearing of all the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prophets who came before me and before you in ancient times prophesied against many nations and powerful kingdoms, foretelling war, disaster, and plague.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prophet who foretells peace will be recognized as truly sent by the LORD when the events he predicted come to pass.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Hananiah the prophet removed the yoke from the neck of Jeremiah the prophet and broke it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hananiah spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, "This is what the LORD says: In exactly two years, I will break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, from the neck of all the nations." After this, the prophet Jeremiah went on his way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah the prophet after Hananiah the prophet had broken the yoke from the neck of Jeremiah the prophet, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and deliver this message to Hananiah: This is what the LORD says: You have shattered the wooden yokes, but in their place, you will forge yokes of iron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: I have placed an iron yoke on the necks of all these nations, so that they will serve Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon. They will indeed serve him, and I have even given him authority over the wild animals of the field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the prophet Jeremiah said to Hananiah the prophet, "Listen, Hananiah: The LORD has not sent you, yet you are leading these people to put their trust in a lie."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says: "Listen carefully, I will remove you from the face of the earth. This very year you will die, because you have incited rebellion against the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Hananiah the prophet died that same year, in the seventh month.</span></p>






</body></html>