<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\snqz60.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:34a86067-ed50-a466-8fb7-3d178c99ec0b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam's reign, Abijah became king over Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He ruled for three years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Michaiah, the daughter of Uriel from Gibeah. During his reign, there was ongoing conflict between Abijah and Jeroboam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abijah prepared for battle with an army of four hundred thousand courageous and skilled warriors. Jeroboam also arranged his forces against him, leading eight hundred thousand chosen men, all of whom were strong and valiant fighters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abijah stood on Mount Zemaraim, which is in the hill country of Ephraim, and declared, "Listen to me, Jeroboam, and all Israel!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Should you not understand that the LORD, the God of Israel, granted the kingdom over Israel to David forever—to him and to his descendants—through an enduring covenant?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who was a servant of Solomon, the son of David, has risen up and rebelled against his master.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And worthless men, the sons of Belial, gathered around him and rose up against Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, when Rehoboam was young and inexperienced, and he was unable to resist them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now you presume to oppose the kingdom of the LORD, which is under the authority of the descendants of David. Though you are a vast multitude and have with you the golden calves that Jeroboam made for you as gods, do you truly believe this will prevail?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have you not driven out the priests of the LORD, the descendants of Aaron, and the Levites, and instead appointed your own priests in the way of the nations of other lands? Now, anyone who comes to dedicate himself with a young bull and seven rams can become a priest for those who are not gods at all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For our part, the LORD is our God, and we have not abandoned Him. The priests who serve the LORD are descendants of Aaron, and the Levites carry out their duties as appointed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They offer burnt sacrifices to the LORD every morning and every evening, along with fragrant incense. They also arrange the showbread on the pure table and light the lamps on the golden lampstand each evening. These are the duties we faithfully carry out to honor the LORD our God. But you have abandoned Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: God Himself is with us as our leader, and His priests are ready to sound the trumpets to declare war against you. People of Israel, do not fight against the LORD, the God of your ancestors, for you will not succeed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jeroboam set an ambush to attack them from behind, so that while the main force of Judah faced them head-on, the ambush lay in wait at their rear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Judah turned to look, they saw that the battle surrounded them, both in front and behind. In their distress, they cried out to the LORD, and the priests blew the trumpets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the men of Judah raised a battle cry, and as they shouted, it happened that God struck down Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites fled before the army of Judah, and God handed them over to Judah's forces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abijah and his forces inflicted a massive defeat upon them, resulting in the death of five hundred thousand of Israel's finest soldiers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the people of Israel were subdued, but the people of Judah gained the upper hand because they trusted in the LORD, the God of their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abijah pursued Jeroboam and captured several cities from him: Bethel along with its surrounding towns, Jeshanah with its towns, and Ephron with its towns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeroboam never regained his power during the reign of Abijah. The Lord struck him down, and he died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Abijah grew powerful and took fourteen wives, who bore him twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Abijah's reign, including his actions and his words, are recorded in the chronicles of the prophet Iddo.</span></p>






</body></html>