<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\snr6sr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9cd1f34d-9e14-99a3-70db-904d6ae2d746" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer, placed fire in it, and added incense to it. They then presented unauthorized fire before the LORD, something He had not commanded them to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then fire came forth from the presence of the LORD and consumed them, and they died in the presence of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Moses said to Aaron, "This is what the LORD meant when He said, 'I will show Myself holy among those who approach Me, and before all the people I will be honored.'" And Aaron remained silent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses summoned Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel, Aaron’s uncle, and said to them, “Come forward and carry your relatives away from the front of the sanctuary, taking them outside the camp.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they approached and carried them in their cloaks outside the camp, just as Moses had instructed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to Aaron and to his sons Eleazar and Ithamar, "Do not leave your heads uncovered or tear your clothes, or else you will die, and God's anger will come upon all the people. Instead, let your relatives, the entire community of Israel, mourn the destruction caused by the fire the LORD has ignited."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not leave the entrance of the tent of meeting, or you will die, because the anointing oil of the LORD is on you. So they obeyed the command of Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the LORD spoke to Aaron, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You and your sons must not drink wine or any other alcoholic beverage when you enter the tent of meeting, or you will die. This is a permanent regulation for all your generations to come.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so that you may distinguish between what is sacred and what is common, and between what is ritually impure and what is pure;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so that you may instruct the people of Israel in all the decrees that the LORD has given to them through Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses spoke to Aaron and to his remaining sons, Eleazar and Ithamar, saying, "Take the grain offering that is left over from the offerings made by fire to the Lord, and eat it without yeast beside the altar, for it is most holy."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to eat it in the sacred area, for it is your portion and your sons' portion from the offerings made to the LORD by fire. This is what I have been commanded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You and your sons and daughters with you shall eat the breast that was waved and the thigh that was lifted up in a clean place. These portions are your rightful share and the rightful share of your sons, given to you from the peace offerings presented by the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The raised shoulder and the breast that is waved shall be brought along with the offerings made by fire from the fat, to present them as a wave offering before the LORD. These portions shall belong to you and your sons with you, as a permanent regulation, just as the LORD has commanded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses carefully inquired about the goat that had been designated as the sin offering, but he discovered that it had already been burned. He became angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, the surviving sons of Aaron, and said to them,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why have you not eaten the sin offering in the sacred area, since it is most holy? The Lord has given it to you to carry the guilt of the community, so that you may make atonement for them before Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the blood of the offering was not brought into the inner sanctuary. You should have eaten the meat in the sacred area, as I commanded you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron said to Moses, "Today they have presented their sin offering and their burnt offering before the LORD, but these events have happened to me. If I had eaten the sin offering today, would it have been acceptable in the LORD's sight?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Moses heard this, he was satisfied.</span></p>






</body></html>