<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\snrroh.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5f8209c2-f450-b4ef-70a7-eaf979782adc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat, his son, succeeded him as king and fortified his position against Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He stationed troops in all the fortified cities of Judah and established military outposts throughout the land of Judah, as well as in the cities of Ephraim that his father Asa had captured.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD was with Jehoshaphat because he followed the earlier example of his ancestor David and did not turn to the worship of the Baals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instead, he sought the LORD, the God of his father, and followed His commandments, refusing to conform to the practices of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD firmly established the kingdom under Jehoshaphat’s authority, and all Judah brought him gifts. He amassed great wealth and honor in abundance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his heart was devoted to following the ways of the LORD. Furthermore, he removed the high places and the Asherah poles from Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the third year of his reign, he sent his officials—Benhail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethaneel, and Michaiah—to instruct the people in the cities of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He sent Levites with them, including Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, all of whom were Levites. Alongside them, he also sent Elishama and Jehoram, who were priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They instructed the people in Judah, carrying with them the book of the law of the LORD. They traveled through all the cities of Judah, teaching the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And a profound reverence for the LORD came upon all the surrounding kingdoms of the lands near Judah, so that they did not dare to wage war against Jehoshaphat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, some of the Philistines brought gifts and tribute silver to Jehoshaphat, while the Arabians presented him with livestock: seven thousand seven hundred rams and seven thousand seven hundred male goats.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat grew exceedingly powerful and prosperous. He constructed fortified cities and storage towns throughout Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was deeply involved in the affairs of the cities of Judah, and the warriors, who were strong and courageous men, were stationed in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the numbers of the troops, organized according to their ancestral families: From Judah, the commanders of thousands included Adnah as the chief, and with him were three hundred thousand mighty warriors of valor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to him was Jehohanan the commander, accompanied by 280,000 men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to him was Amasiah, the son of Zichri, who willingly dedicated himself to the LORD. With him were two hundred thousand courageous and mighty warriors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Benjamin, there was Eliada, a mighty warrior, accompanied by 200,000 armed men equipped with bows and shields.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to him was Jehozabad, and with him were one hundred and eighty thousand men, fully equipped and ready for battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These men served the king directly, in addition to those whom the king had stationed in the fortified cities throughout all of Judah.</span></p>






</body></html>