<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nehemiah Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\snwf7u.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4a782dbb-3792-00ff-0eee-dfa6e6639e4a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nehemiah Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the month of Nisan, during the twentieth year of King Artaxerxes’ reign, wine was set before him. I took the wine and presented it to the king. Up to that time, I had never appeared sorrowful in his presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the king said to me, "Why do you look so sad, since you are not sick? This can only be the result of a troubled heart." At this, I became deeply afraid.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to the king, "May the king live forever! Why should I not look sad when the city, the place where my ancestors are buried, lies in ruins, and its gates have been destroyed by fire?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king asked me, "What is it that you are seeking?" At that moment, I prayed to the God of heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I said to the king, "If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight, I ask that you send me to Judah, to the city where my ancestors are buried, so that I may rebuild it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to me (with the queen seated beside him), "How long will your journey take, and when will you return?" It pleased the king to send me, so I gave him a specific time for my return.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also said to the king, "If it pleases the king, may letters be granted to me for the governors of the region beyond the Euphrates River, so that they will allow me safe passage until I arrive in Judah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also wrote a letter to Asaph, the keeper of the king’s forest, requesting that he provide me with timber to make beams for the gates of the palace that belongs to the temple, for the city wall, and for the house I will occupy. The king granted my request, for the gracious hand of my God was upon me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I arrived at the governors of the region beyond the Euphrates River and delivered to them the letters from the king. The king had also assigned army officers and cavalry to accompany me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite official heard about it, they were deeply disturbed and greatly displeased that someone had come to promote the well-being of the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I arrived in Jerusalem and stayed there for three days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I got up during the night, accompanied by a few men, but I did not inform anyone about what my God had placed in my heart to accomplish in Jerusalem. I took no animals with me except the one I was riding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I went out at night through the Valley Gate, passing by the Dragon Spring and continuing to the Dung Gate. I inspected the walls of Jerusalem, which were in ruins, and its gates, which had been destroyed by fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I proceeded to the Fountain Gate and the King’s Pool, but there was no space for the animal I was riding to pass through.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I went up during the night along the stream and inspected the wall. Afterward, I turned back, entered through the Valley Gate, and returned to my starting point.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The officials did not know where I had gone or what I was doing, for I had not yet informed the Jewish leaders, the priests, the nobles, the officials, or any of the others who were involved in the work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said to them, "You see the trouble we are in—how Jerusalem lies in ruins, and its gates have been destroyed by fire. Come, let us rebuild the wall of Jerusalem, so that we will no longer be a disgrace."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I explained to them how the gracious hand of my God had been upon me, and I also shared the words that the king had spoken to me. They responded, "Let us rise up and begin building." So they prepared themselves and committed to this noble task.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when Sanballat the Horonite, Tobiah the Ammonite official, and Geshem the Arab heard about it, they mocked and ridiculed us, showing utter contempt. They said, "What is this you are doing? Are you rebelling against the king?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I responded to them, saying, "The God of heaven will grant us success; therefore, we, His servants, will rise up and rebuild. But you have no share, no claim, and no remembrance in Jerusalem."</span></p>






</body></html>