<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 35</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sny31d.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6870161d-34f0-73ee-89e7-b79d0f3667f0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 35</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that came to Jeremiah from the LORD during the reign of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah. The LORD said to him:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go to the house of the Rechabites, speak to them, and bring them into the house of the LORD, into one of its rooms. Then offer them wine to drink.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I took Jaazaniah, the son of Jeremiah, who was the son of Habaziniah, along with his brothers, all his sons, and the entire household of the Rechabites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I led them into the house of the LORD, to the room of the sons of Hanan, the son of Igdaliah, a man devoted to God. This room was located near the chamber of the officials, above the room of Maaseiah, the son of Shallum, who was the gatekeeper.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I placed before the descendants of the house of the Rechabites jars filled with wine and cups, and I said to them, "Drink wine."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But they replied, "We will not drink wine, for Jonadab son of Rechab, our ancestor, commanded us, saying, 'You and your descendants must never drink wine.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not build houses, plant crops, or establish vineyards, nor possess any of these things. Instead, live in tents all your days, so that you may live long in the land where you reside as foreigners.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have faithfully followed the command of Jonadab, the son of Rechab, our ancestor, in everything he instructed us. We have not drunk wine throughout our lives—neither we, nor our wives, nor our sons, nor our daughters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have not built houses for ourselves to live in, nor do we have vineyards, fields, or seed to plant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have lived in tents and have faithfully obeyed and followed all that our ancestor Jonadab commanded us to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, advanced into the land, we decided, "Let us go to Jerusalem to seek safety from the armies of the Chaldeans and the Syrians." And so we settled in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of Hosts, the God of Israel, says: Go and speak to the people of Judah and the residents of Jerusalem. Will you not accept correction and listen to my words? declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The words of Jonadab, son of Rechab, which he commanded his descendants not to drink wine, have been faithfully observed. To this day, they do not drink wine, adhering to their ancestor’s command. But as for you, I have spoken to you repeatedly, rising early and delivering my message, yet you have not listened to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have also sent to you all my servants the prophets, diligently and persistently sending them with this message: "Turn back now, each of you, from your wicked ways, correct your actions, and do not pursue other gods to serve them. If you do this, you will remain in the land that I have given to you and your ancestors." But you have not listened or paid attention to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because the descendants of Jonadab, the son of Rechab, have faithfully carried out the command of their ancestor, which he gave to them, but this people has not listened to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD, the God of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Listen carefully, I am about to bring upon Judah and all the people of Jerusalem every disaster I have announced against them. For I have repeatedly spoken to them, but they have not listened; I have called out to them, but they have not responded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeremiah said to the family of the Rechabites, "This is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Because you have obeyed the command of Jonadab your ancestor, followed all his instructions, and done everything he commanded you to do..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Jonadab, the son of Rechab, will never lack a descendant to serve before me forever.</span></p>






</body></html>