<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\snzo7k.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e75b04c4-10a0-51ea-9efb-4397a0c67ab4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel also said to Saul, "The LORD sent me to anoint you as king over His people, over Israel. Therefore, listen carefully to the words of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts declares: I have not forgotten what Amalek did to Israel—how they ambushed them on the journey when they were coming up from Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now go and attack Amalek, and completely destroy everything they possess. Show no mercy; put to death both men and women, children and infants, as well as their cattle, sheep, camels, and donkeys.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul assembled the people and counted them at Telaim, totaling two hundred thousand foot soldiers and ten thousand men from Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul advanced to an Amalekite city and set up an ambush in the valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said to the Kenites, "Go, leave, and move away from among the Amalekites, so that I do not destroy you along with them. For you showed kindness to all the Israelites when they came up out of Egypt." So the Kenites withdrew from among the Amalekites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul attacked the Amalekites, starting from Havilah and advancing all the way to Shur, which lies near the border of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He captured Agag, the king of the Amalekites, alive, and completely annihilated all the people by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Saul and the people spared Agag, along with the best of the sheep, the cattle, the fattened animals, the lambs, and everything that was valuable. They were unwilling to completely destroy them. But anything that was worthless or of poor quality, they utterly destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to Samuel, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I regret that I have made Saul king, for he has turned away from following me and has not carried out my commands. This deeply troubled Samuel, and he cried out to the LORD throughout the night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Samuel rose early in the morning to meet Saul, he was informed, saying, "Saul went to Carmel, and there he set up a monument for himself. Then he moved on, passing through the area, and went down to Gilgal."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel approached Saul, and Saul said to him, "May you be blessed by the LORD! I have carried out the LORD's command."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel replied, "Then what is the meaning of this sound of sheep I hear in my ears and the lowing of oxen that reaches me?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul replied, "They brought them from the Amalekites. The people spared the best of the sheep and cattle to offer as a sacrifice to the LORD your God, but we completely destroyed everything else."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Samuel said to Saul, "Wait here, and I will tell you what the LORD has revealed to me this night." Saul replied, "Speak."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel said, "When you were humble and saw yourself as insignificant, did not the Lord appoint you as the leader of the tribes of Israel and anoint you as king over Israel?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD sent you on a mission and commanded you, saying, "Go and completely destroy the sinful Amalekites. Engage in battle against them until they are entirely wiped out."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why then did you not obey the voice of the LORD? Instead, you rushed greedily upon the plunder and did what was evil in the sight of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said to Samuel, "Indeed, I have obeyed the voice of the LORD. I went on the mission the LORD sent me on, captured Agag, the king of Amalek, and completely destroyed the Amalekites."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the people took some of the plunder—sheep and cattle, the best of what was to be completely destroyed—to offer as sacrifices to the LORD your God at Gilgal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel said, "Does the LORD take as much pleasure in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying His voice? Truly, obedience is better than sacrifice, and listening to Him is more valuable than the fat of rams."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rebellion is as serious as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as grievous as idolatry. Because you have rejected the command of the LORD, he has also rejected you from being king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said to Samuel, "I have sinned, for I have violated the command of the LORD and your instructions. I was afraid of the people and gave in to their demands."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, I ask you, please forgive my sin and return with me, so that I may worship the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel said to Saul, "I will not go back with you, because you have rejected the command of the LORD, and the LORD has rejected you from being king over Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Samuel turned to leave, Saul grabbed the edge of Samuel’s robe, and it tore.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel said to him, "The LORD has taken the kingdom of Israel away from you today and has given it to someone else, a neighbor of yours, who is more worthy than you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moreover, the Mighty One of Israel does not deceive or change His mind, for He is not a human being who would reconsider His decisions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said, "I have sinned. But please, honor me now in the presence of the elders of my people and before all of Israel. Return with me so that I may worship the LORD your God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Samuel turned back to accompany Saul, and Saul bowed in reverence to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Samuel said, "Bring Agag, the king of the Amalekites, here to me." Agag came to him with a confident and composed demeanor. Agag said, "Surely the bitterness of death has passed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel declared, "Just as your sword has left women without children, so will your mother be left childless among women." Then Samuel executed Agag before the Lord in Gilgal, cutting him into pieces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Samuel departed for Ramah, while Saul returned to his home in Gibeah, the town that bore his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel did not visit Saul again until the day of his death, yet Samuel continued to grieve over Saul. And the LORD regretted that He had made Saul king over Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>