<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 36</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\snzvc0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0adb2137-62dc-09a1-c73d-c7555e45a2ed" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 36</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Bezalel and Oholiab, along with every skilled person to whom the LORD had given wisdom and understanding—enabling them to know how to carry out all the tasks required for the service of the sanctuary—worked according to everything the LORD had commanded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses summoned Bezalel and Oholiab, along with every skilled person to whom the Lord had given wisdom—everyone whose heart was moved to contribute to the work and carry it out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people brought to Moses all the contributions that the Israelites had offered for the work of constructing the sanctuary and its service. Each morning, they continued to bring him voluntary offerings as well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the skilled craftsmen who were working on the various tasks for the sanctuary left their individual projects and came together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people came to Moses and said, "The people are bringing far more than is needed for the work of the service that the LORD has commanded to be done."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses issued a command, and it was announced throughout the camp, saying, "No man or woman is to prepare any more materials for the sanctuary offering." As a result, the people stopped bringing contributions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The materials they had were more than enough to complete all the work required, and there was even an abundance left over.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every skilled craftsman among those who worked on the tabernacle made ten curtains of finely woven linen, along with blue, purple, and scarlet yarn. They skillfully embroidered them with cherubim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each curtain was twenty-eight cubits long and four cubits wide; all the curtains were of the same size.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He joined the five curtains together, one to another, and then joined the other five curtains together in the same manner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He made loops of blue yarn along the edge of the first curtain, at the very end where it was to be joined. In the same way, he made loops on the outermost edge of the second curtain, where it was to be connected to the first.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He made fifty loops on one curtain and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was joined to the second curtain; the loops were aligned so that one curtain could be fastened to the other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted fifty gold clasps and used them to join the curtains together, one to another, so that the entire structure became a single tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted curtains from goat hair to serve as a covering for the tent over the tabernacle. He made eleven such curtains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each curtain was thirty cubits long and four cubits wide. All eleven curtains were of the same measurement.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He joined five of the curtains together as one set, and the other six curtains together as a separate set.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He made fifty loops along the outermost edge of the first curtain to join it to the next, and he made fifty loops along the edge of the second curtain to connect it to the first.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He made fifty bronze clasps to join the tent together, so that it would be a single unit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted a covering for the tent out of rams' skins dyed red, and over it, he placed a covering of fine leather.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed the frames for the tabernacle out of acacia wood, setting them upright.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each board was ten cubits long and one and a half cubits wide.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each board had two matching pegs, set at equal distances from one another. This is how he made all the boards for the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed the frames for the tabernacle, making twenty frames for the southern side, facing southward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He made forty silver bases to go beneath the twenty frames—two bases under each frame to hold its two pegs, and two bases under the next frame for its two pegs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the opposite side of the tabernacle, facing the northern direction, he constructed twenty frames.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were forty silver bases, with two bases placed beneath each board.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the western side of the tabernacle, he constructed six panels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also made two additional boards for the corners of the tabernacle on the two sides.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The frames were joined together at the bottom and also connected at the top by a single ring. This was done for both frames at the two corners.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were eight panels, and each panel had two silver bases, making a total of sixteen silver bases—two bases for each panel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted bars from acacia wood; five bars for the frames on one side of the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And make five crossbars for the frames on the other side of the tabernacle, and five crossbars for the frames on the western side of the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted a central bar that extended through the middle of the planks, running from one end to the other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He covered the boards with gold and crafted gold rings to serve as holders for the crossbars. He also overlaid the crossbars themselves with gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted a curtain of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and finely woven linen. He skillfully embroidered it with cherubim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed four pillars of acacia wood for it and covered them with gold. Their hooks were also made of gold, and he cast four silver bases to support them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted a curtain for the entrance of the tabernacle, made of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, along with finely woven linen, skillfully embroidered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the five pillars of it, along with their hooks, were overlaid with gold; he also covered their capitals and their connecting bands with gold. However, their five bases were made of bronze.</span></p>






</body></html>