<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\so0ztk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:df9fb838-66b7-cb97-5c66-160427e09bdd" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Ahab died, Moab rose up in rebellion against Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaziah fell through the lattice of his upper room in Samaria and became ill. He sent messengers with these instructions: "Go and consult Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron, to find out if I will recover from this illness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the angel of the LORD said to Elijah the Tishbite, "Get up and go to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria. Say to them, 'Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are going to consult Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron?'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says: You will not come down from the bed you have gone up to, but you will certainly die. Then Elijah left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the messengers returned to him, he asked them, "Why have you come back now?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied to him, "A man came to meet us and said to us, 'Go back to the king who sent you and tell him, "This is what the LORD says: Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are sending messengers to consult Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore, you will not get up from the bed you have lain down on; you will certainly die."'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he asked them, "What kind of man was it who came to meet you and spoke these words to you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied to him, "He was a man with a hairy garment, and he wore a leather belt around his waist." Then he said, "It is Elijah the Tishbite."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king sent a captain with fifty men to him. The captain went up to where the man of God was, and found him sitting on the top of a hill. The captain said to him, "Man of God, the king commands you to come down."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah responded to the captain of the fifty, saying, "If I am indeed a man of God, may fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men." Immediately, fire descended from heaven and consumed him and his fifty men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, he sent another captain of fifty men along with his fifty. The captain addressed him, saying, "Man of God, the king commands you: Come down at once!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah responded to them, saying, "If I am truly a man of God, may fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men." Then the fire of God descended from heaven and consumed him and his fifty men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he sent a third captain of fifty with his fifty men. This third captain went up, approached Elijah, and knelt before him, pleading, "Man of God, I beg you, let my life and the lives of these fifty servants of yours be of value in your sight."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, fire came down from heaven and consumed the two captains of the first fifties along with their fifty men. Therefore, I beg you, let my life be of great value in your sight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel of the LORD said to Elijah, "Go down with him; do not be afraid of him." So Elijah got up and went down with him to meet the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to him, "This is what the LORD declares: Because you sent messengers to consult Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron, is it not because you believe there is no God in Israel to seek His word? Therefore, you will not come down from the bed you have gone up on; you will certainly die."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he died, just as the LORD had declared through Elijah. Jehoram succeeded him as king in the second year of the reign of Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, because Ahaziah had no son to take his place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Ahaziah's reign and all that he accomplished are recorded in the historical records of the kings of Israel, are they not?</span></p>






</body></html>