<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezra Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\so14bo.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c6d9cdc4-31df-1362-2837-73164ac24e5e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezra Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, in order to fulfill the word of the LORD spoken through the prophet Jeremiah, the LORD moved the heart of Cyrus, king of Persia, to issue a decree throughout his entire kingdom and to put it in writing. The proclamation declared:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the declaration of Cyrus, king of Persia: The LORD, the God of heaven, has granted me authority over all the kingdoms of the earth. He has entrusted me with the task of building a temple for Him in Jerusalem, which is in the land of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is there anyone among all of God’s people? May their God be with them, and let them go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and rebuild the house of the LORD, the God of Israel—He is the true God—which is in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And whoever remains in any place where they are living, let the people of that place assist them with silver, gold, goods, and livestock, in addition to the voluntary offering for the house of God in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the leaders of the families of Judah and Benjamin, along with the priests and the Levites, arose—everyone whose spirit God had stirred—to go up and rebuild the house of the LORD in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All those who were around them supported them by providing vessels of silver, gold, goods, livestock, and valuable items, in addition to everything that was freely given as an offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Cyrus also brought out the sacred vessels belonging to the house of the LORD, which Nebuchadnezzar had taken from Jerusalem and placed in the temple of his own gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Cyrus of Persia had these items brought out under the supervision of Mithredath, the treasurer, who carefully counted them and entrusted them to Sheshbazzar, the leader of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the count of the items: thirty gold dishes, one thousand silver dishes, and twenty-nine knives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were thirty gold bowls, four hundred and ten silver bowls of a second kind, and one thousand other vessels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of gold and silver vessels was five thousand four hundred. Sheshbazzar brought all these items along when the exiles were brought up from Babylon to Jerusalem.</span></p>






</body></html>