<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Timothy Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\so3scn.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4bfa774d-1322-85f8-c104-3afeb5803ba0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Timothy Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All servants who are under the authority of their masters should regard them as deserving of full respect, so that the name of God and the teachings of our faith may not be discredited.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And those who have believing masters should not disrespect them because they are fellow believers. Instead, they should serve them all the more diligently, since those who benefit from their service are faithful and dearly loved. Teach and encourage these principles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone teaches contrary to sound instruction and does not agree with the wholesome teachings of our Lord Jesus Christ and the doctrine that aligns with true godliness,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He is arrogant, understanding nothing, but obsessed with disputes and arguments over words. From this come envy, quarrels, slander, and evil suspicions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Engage in pointless arguments with those whose minds are corrupted and who lack the truth, believing that personal gain is a sign of godliness. Distance yourself from such people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">True devotion to God, when accompanied by contentment, brings immense spiritual benefit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For we entered this world with nothing, and it is undeniable that we will depart with nothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if we have food and clothing, let us be satisfied with these.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, those who desire to become wealthy fall into temptation and a trap, and into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The desire for wealth is the source of all kinds of harm. In their pursuit of it, some have strayed from the faith and brought upon themselves great suffering and pain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you, O servant of God, turn away from such things and instead pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, endurance, and gentleness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Engage wholeheartedly in the noble struggle of faith, and take firm hold of the eternal life to which you have been called. You have already made a strong and public declaration of your faith in the presence of many witnesses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I solemnly charge you before God, who gives life to all things, and in the presence of Christ Jesus, who made a bold and faithful declaration before Pontius Pilate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Make sure to uphold this command flawlessly and without reproach, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the appointed time, He will reveal Himself—the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of all kings and Lord of all lords.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He alone possesses immortality, residing in unapproachable light, whom no one has ever seen or can see. To Him be eternal honor and power. Amen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instruct those who are wealthy in this present age not to be arrogant or to place their confidence in the instability of riches, but rather in the living God, who abundantly provides us with all things for our enjoyment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let them do good deeds, amassing a wealth of righteous actions, always prepared to give generously and eager to share with others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By doing this, they are storing up for themselves a solid foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of the life that is truly eternal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Timothy, guard carefully what has been entrusted to you. Stay away from irreverent and empty chatter, as well as the contradictions of what is falsely called knowledge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some who claim to hold to the faith have strayed from it. May grace be with you. Amen.</span></p>






</body></html>