<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 33</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\so5ng8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f6c73925-8f7a-ace3-6daa-95a3c6e614d9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 33</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the blessing that Moses, the man of God, pronounced over the Israelites before his death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "The LORD came from Sinai and appeared to them from Seir; He shone forth from Mount Paran and arrived with tens of thousands of holy ones. From His right hand went forth a fiery law for them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, he loved the people; all his holy ones are in your care. They gathered at your feet, and each one receives instruction from your words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses gave us the law, which serves as the enduring possession for the assembly of Jacob.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he became king over Jeshurun when the leaders of the people and the tribes of Israel assembled together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May Reuben live and not perish, and may his descendants not be few in number.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the blessing pronounced upon Judah, and he said: "O LORD, hear the voice of Judah, and bring him to his people. May his hands be strong enough for his tasks, and may You be his help against his enemies."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning Levi, he said: "May your Thummim and Urim belong to your faithful one, whom you tested at Massah and with whom you contended at the waters of Meribah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever says to their father or mother, “I do not know you,” and does not acknowledge their siblings or even their own children—they are the ones who have obeyed your word and faithfully kept your covenant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will instruct Jacob in your decrees, and Israel in your law. They will offer incense before you and present whole burnt offerings on your altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the LORD bless his possessions and look favorably upon the work of his hands. Strike down those who oppose him and those who hate him, so that they may never rise again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning Benjamin, he said: "The LORD's beloved will dwell securely beside Him; the LORD will shield him continually, and he will rest safely in His care."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning Joseph, he declared: "May the LORD bless his land with the most precious gifts from heaven—with dew and with the deep waters that lie beneath the earth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And for the valuable crops produced by the sun’s warmth, and for the precious yield brought forth by the moon’s influence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And for the finest produce of the ancient mountains, and for the most valuable treasures of the eternal hills,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And for the abundant riches of the earth and all its fullness, and for the favor of the One who appeared in the burning bush: may the blessing rest upon the head of Joseph, and upon the crown of him who was set apart from his brothers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His majesty is like the firstborn of his bull, and his strength is like the horns of a wild ox. With them he will drive the nations to the farthest ends of the earth. These are the tens of thousands of Ephraim, and these are the thousands of Manasseh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning Zebulun, he said: "Be joyful, Zebulun, as you go out, and you, Issachar, in your dwellings."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will summon the people to the mountain; there they will present righteous offerings. For they will draw from the abundance of the seas and the hidden treasures buried in the sand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning Gad, he declared: "Blessed is the one who expands Gad's territory. He lives like a lion, fierce and bold, tearing apart the arm and even the crown of the head."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He chose the best portion for himself, for there, in the allotment of the leader, he took his place. He came with the leaders of the people, carrying out the justice of the LORD and His ordinances with Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning Dan, he said: Dan is like a young lion; he will spring forth from Bashan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning Naphtali, he said: "O Naphtali, you are filled with the Lord's favor and abundantly blessed by Him. Take possession of the land to the west and the south."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning Asher, he declared: May Asher be blessed with many children; may he be favored by his brothers, and may he bathe his feet in oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your sandals will be made of iron and bronze, and your strength will endure as long as your days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There is no one like the God of Jeshurun, who rides across the heavens to come to your aid, and in His majesty moves through the skies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The eternal God is your place of safety, and beneath you are His everlasting arms of support. He will drive out the enemy before you and command, "Destroy them!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Israel will then live securely, undisturbed and at peace. The descendants of Jacob will thrive in a land abundant with grain and wine; even the skies above will pour down refreshing dew.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How blessed you are, O Israel! Who is like you, a people saved by the LORD? He is the shield that protects you, the sword that brings you victory. Your enemies will be exposed as liars before you, and you will trample over their strongholds.</span></p>






</body></html>