<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\so5oy1.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b08ac5c1-de1f-af0f-a6ec-93a69cd7b5a0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Jericho was tightly closed off because of the Israelites; no one could go out, and no one could come in.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Joshua, "Look, I have delivered Jericho into your hands, along with its king and its mighty warriors."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You and all your fighting men are to march around the city, circling it one time. You must do this for six days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Seven priests are to carry seven trumpets made from rams' horns in front of the ark. On the seventh day, you are to march around the city seven times, and the priests are to blow the trumpets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: When they sound a long blast on the ram’s horn and you hear the trumpet’s call, all the people are to raise a mighty shout. Then the city wall will collapse, and the people will advance, each one moving straight ahead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua, the son of Nun, summoned the priests and instructed them, saying, "Carry the ark of the covenant, and have seven priests take up seven trumpets made from rams' horns to go before the ark of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he instructed the people, saying, "Advance and march around the city, with the armed men leading the way before the ark of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Joshua had finished speaking to the people, the seven priests carrying the seven ram’s horn trumpets moved forward in the presence of the LORD and began to blow the trumpets. The ark of the LORD’s covenant followed behind them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The armed soldiers marched ahead of the priests who were blowing the trumpets, while the rear guard followed behind the ark. The priests continued to advance, blowing the trumpets as they went.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua had instructed the people, saying, "Do not shout or raise your voices, nor let any word come from your mouths until the day I tell you to shout. Only then shall you shout aloud."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the ark of the LORD went around the city, circling it once. Then they returned to the camp and spent the night there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua got up early in the morning, and the priests carried the ark of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Seven priests carrying seven trumpets made from rams' horns walked ahead of the ark of the LORD, blowing the trumpets continuously. The armed men marched in front of them, while the rear guard followed behind the ark of the LORD. The priests continued to advance, blowing the trumpets as they went.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the second day, they marched around the city once and then returned to the camp. They did this for six days in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day, they rose early at the break of dawn and marched around the city in the same manner as before, but on that day, they circled the city seven times.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh occasion, when the priests sounded the trumpets, Joshua said to the people, "Shout, for the LORD has given you the city!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The city and everything within it shall be devoted to the LORD for destruction. Only Rahab the prostitute and all who are with her in her house shall be spared, because she hid the messengers we sent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be absolutely careful to avoid anything that is devoted to destruction, so that you do not bring destruction upon yourselves by taking anything that is under the ban. If you do, you will make the camp of Israel liable to destruction and bring disaster upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, all the silver, gold, and items made of bronze and iron are set apart as holy to the LORD; they must be brought into the LORD's treasury.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the priests sounded the trumpets, the people raised a mighty shout. As soon as they heard the blast of the trumpets and the people’s loud cry, the wall collapsed completely. Then the people charged straight ahead into the city, each one moving forward directly in front of him, and they captured the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They completely annihilated everything in the city—men and women, young and old, as well as oxen, sheep, and donkeys—by the sword, leaving nothing alive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Joshua had instructed the two men who had scouted the land, "Go into the house of the prostitute and bring out from there the woman and all who belong to her, just as you swore to her."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The young men who had served as spies entered and brought out Rahab, along with her father, mother, brothers, and all that belonged to her. They also brought out all her relatives and placed them outside the camp of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They set the city on fire, burning everything within it. However, they took the silver, the gold, and the bronze and iron vessels and brought them into the treasury of the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua spared the life of Rahab the prostitute, along with her father’s household and all that belonged to her, and she has lived among the people of Israel to this day. This was because she had hidden the messengers Joshua sent to scout out Jericho.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua solemnly warned the people at that time, saying, "May the man who dares to rebuild this city of Jericho be cursed before the LORD. If he lays its foundation, he will do so at the cost of his firstborn son, and if he sets up its gates, he will do so at the cost of his youngest son."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the LORD was with Joshua, and his reputation spread throughout the entire land.</span></p>






</body></html>