<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 27</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\so6sue.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:893a3cfa-bf4a-4f3d-fefb-c3f1e2245eb0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 27</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and tell them: When someone makes a special vow to dedicate a person to the LORD, the value of that person shall be determined according to the valuation you set.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your valuation for a male between the ages of twenty and sixty years old shall be fifty shekels of silver, according to the standard weight of the sanctuary shekel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the offering is a female, then your valuation shall be thirty shekels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the person is between five and twenty years old, then your valuation shall be twenty shekels for a male and ten shekels for a female.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the person is between one month and five years old, your valuation shall be five shekels of silver for a male and three shekels of silver for a female.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the person is sixty years old or older—if it is a male, your valuation shall be fifteen shekels, and for a female, ten shekels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the person is unable to afford the estimated value, they must present themselves before the priest, and the priest will assess their worth. The priest will determine the value based on what the individual can reasonably afford.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone brings an animal as an offering to the LORD, whatever animal is given to the LORD in this way shall be considered holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He must not alter or replace it, exchanging a good animal for a bad one or a bad one for a good one. If he does substitute one animal for another, both the original animal and its replacement will be considered holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the animal is one that is considered unclean, and therefore not suitable as an offering to the LORD, the person must bring the animal before the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall assess its value, determining whether it is good or poor. Whatever value the priest assigns to it, that shall be its worth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if he chooses to buy it back, he must add one-fifth of its value to your assessment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When someone dedicates their house as holy to the LORD, the priest will assess its value, determining whether it is in good or poor condition. Whatever value the priest assigns, that will be its established worth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the person who dedicated the house wishes to buy it back, they must add one-fifth of the value set by your assessment to the original amount, and then it will belong to them again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone dedicates to the LORD a portion of a field that belongs to them, the value of that portion will be determined by the amount of seed required to sow it. Specifically, a homer of barley seed will be valued at fifty shekels of silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If he dedicates his field during the Year of Jubilee, its value shall be determined according to your assessment, and it will remain fixed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if he dedicates his field after the Jubilee, the priest shall calculate the value for him based on the number of years remaining until the next Jubilee, and the price shall be reduced accordingly from your original valuation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the person who consecrated the field wishes to redeem it, they must add one-fifth of the value set by your assessment to the original amount, and then the field will be confirmed as theirs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the original owner does not buy back the field, or if it has been sold to someone else, the field can no longer be redeemed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when the field is released in the Year of Jubilee, it shall be set apart as holy to the LORD, like a field permanently dedicated. Its ownership shall belong to the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone dedicates to the LORD a field that they have purchased, which is not part of their inherited land,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall calculate the value of your assessment, up to the Year of Jubilee, and on that day he shall set the amount of your valuation as a sacred offering to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the year of Jubilee, the field must be returned to the one from whom it was purchased, that is, to the original owner to whom the land rightfully belongs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All your valuations must be made according to the standard shekel of the sanctuary, with twenty gerahs equaling one shekel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Only the firstborn of the animals, which belongs to the LORD as the firstborn, no one may consecrate it; whether it is an ox or a sheep, it already belongs to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the animal is unclean, the person must redeem it by paying the value you assess, plus an additional fifth of that value. If it is not redeemed, then it must be sold at the price you have determined.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, anything that a person dedicates to the LORD—whether it is a person, an animal, or a field from their property—must not be sold or bought back. Everything that is devoted to the LORD is most sacred and belongs to Him alone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No person who has been set apart for destruction under the ban shall be ransomed; they must certainly be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the tithe from the land, whether from the seed of the soil or the fruit of the trees, belongs to the LORD; it is sacred to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone chooses to redeem any portion of their tithes, they must add one-fifth of its value to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding the tithe of the herd or the flock—whatever passes under the shepherd's rod—the tenth animal shall be set apart as holy to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He must not examine whether it is good or bad, nor may he exchange it. If he does exchange it at all, then both the original and its replacement shall be considered holy; it cannot be redeemed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the commands that the LORD gave to Moses for the people of Israel on Mount Sinai.</span></p>






</body></html>