<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Haggai Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\so9wvk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c5ad0e0e-ca09-d4a3-f1ac-c2b43d036ed2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Haggai Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the second year of King Darius’ reign, on the first day of the sixth month, the word of the LORD came through the prophet Haggai to Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, the governor of Judah, and to Joshua, son of Josedech, the high priest. The message was as follows:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts declares: These people say, "The time has not yet come, the time for the LORD's house to be rebuilt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came through Haggai the prophet, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is it now the right time for you to live in your paneled houses, while this house lies in ruins?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, this is what the LORD of hosts says: Reflect carefully on your actions and your path.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have planted much, but harvested little; you eat, but never have enough; you drink, but are never satisfied; you put on clothes, but no one feels warm; and those who earn wages end up putting their money into a bag full of holes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts says: "Reflect carefully on your actions and the path you are taking."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go up to the mountain, gather wood, and build the house. I will find delight in it, and I will be honored, says the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You expected much, but see, it turned out to be little. And when you brought it home, I blew it away. Why? declares the LORD of hosts. Because my house lies in ruins, while each of you is busy with your own house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the heavens above you withhold their dew, and the earth withholds its produce.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I summoned a drought upon the land, upon the mountains, upon the grain, upon the new wine, upon the olive oil, upon everything the soil produces, upon the people, upon the livestock, and upon all the work of human hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua, the son of Josedech, the high priest, along with all the remaining people, heeded the voice of the LORD their God and the message of Haggai the prophet, whom the LORD their God had sent. And the people stood in reverence before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Haggai, the messenger of the LORD, delivered the LORD’s message to the people, saying, “The LORD declares, ‘I am with you.’”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD moved the heart of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, who was the governor of Judah, and the heart of Joshua, the son of Josedech, the high priest, as well as the hearts of all the remaining people. They were inspired to take action and began working on the house of the LORD of hosts, their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month, in the second year of King Darius.</span></p>






</body></html>