<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Genesis Chapter 24</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sofewz.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a82b75e2-2de8-8428-fa34-cd167b848324" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Genesis Chapter 24</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abraham was now very old, advanced in years, and the LORD had blessed him in every way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abraham said to his senior servant, the one who managed all his affairs, "Please place your hand under my thigh as a solemn pledge."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will have you swear an oath by the LORD, the God of heaven and the God of the earth, that you will not choose a wife for my son from among the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I now live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must go to my homeland and to my relatives, and choose a wife for my son Isaac.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The servant said to him, "What if the woman is not willing to follow me back to this land? Should I then take your son back to the land from which you came?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Abraham said to him, "Be careful not to take my son back there."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD, the God of heaven, who brought me out of my father’s household and from the land of my relatives, who spoke to me and made a solemn promise to me, saying, “To your descendants I will give this land”—He will send His angel ahead of you, and you will take a wife for my son from there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the woman is unwilling to come with you, then you will be released from this oath of mine. However, you must not take my son back there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The servant placed his hand under the thigh of his master Abraham and made a solemn oath to him regarding this matter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The servant took ten of his master’s camels and set out, carrying with him all the wealth and provisions of his master. He journeyed to Mesopotamia, to the city where Nahor lived.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He had his camels kneel down outside the city near a well of water during the evening, at the time when women typically go out to draw water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "O LORD, God of my master Abraham, I ask you to grant me success today and show steadfast love to my master Abraham."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, I am standing here by the spring of water, and the young women of the city are coming out to draw water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let this be the sign: When I approach a young woman and say to her, "Please lower your jar so that I may have a drink," and she replies, "Drink, and I will also water your camels," let her be the one you have chosen for your servant Isaac. By this, I will know that you have shown steadfast love to my master.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before he had finished speaking, Rebekah came out, carrying her water jar on her shoulder. She was the daughter of Bethuel, who was the son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham’s brother.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The young woman was exceedingly beautiful in appearance, a virgin whom no man had ever been intimate with. She went down to the spring, filled her jar with water, and came back up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The servant hurried to meet her and said, "Please, may I have a little water from your jar to drink?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She said, "Please drink, my lord." Then she quickly lowered her pitcher from her shoulder, held it in her hand, and gave him water to drink.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After she had finished giving him water, she said, "I will also draw water for your camels, until they have had enough to drink."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She quickly emptied her jar into the watering trough and hurried back to the well to draw more water. She continued drawing water until she had provided enough for all his camels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man, amazed by her, remained silent, wondering whether the LORD had granted success to his journey or not.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the camels had finished drinking, the man took out a golden earring weighing half a shekel and two bracelets for her wrists, each weighing ten shekels of gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He asked, "Whose daughter are you? Please tell me, is there space in your father’s house for us to stay the night?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said to him, "I am the daughter of Bethuel, the son of Milcah, whom she bore to Nahor."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She further said to him, "We have plenty of straw and fodder for your animals, as well as enough space for you to stay the night."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man lowered his head and paid homage to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "May the LORD, the God of my master Abraham, be praised, who has not withheld His steadfast love and faithfulness from my master. While I was on the journey, the LORD guided me to the home of my master’s relatives."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The young woman hurried and told her mother’s household about these things.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rebekah had a brother named Laban, and Laban hurried out to meet the man at the well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he saw the earring and the bracelets on his sister’s arms and heard Rebekah’s words, saying, “This is what the man said to me,” he went out to the man and found him standing by the camels at the well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "Come in, you who are blessed by the LORD. Why are you standing outside? I have prepared the house and a place for the camels."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man entered the house and untied his camels. He provided straw and fodder for the camels and brought water to wash his own feet, as well as the feet of the men who were with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Food was placed before him to eat, but he said, "I will not eat until I have delivered my message." The other replied, "Go ahead and speak."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "I am the servant of Abraham."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has greatly blessed my master, and he has become very prosperous. He has given him flocks, herds, silver, gold, male and female servants, camels, and donkeys.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Sarah, my master’s wife, bore a son to my master in her old age, and he has given everything he owns to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My master made me take an oath, saying, "You must not choose a wife for my son from among the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I am living."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must go to my father’s household and to my relatives, and find a wife for my son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I said to my master, "What if the woman is unwilling to come with me?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to me, "The LORD, in whose presence I live, will send His angel with you and make your journey successful. You will find a wife for my son from my relatives and my father's family."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will then be released from this oath I have made you swear when you come to my family. If they do not provide you with a wife, you will be free from this obligation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today I came to the well and prayed, "O LORD, God of my master Abraham, if you are willing to grant success to the journey I am on..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, I am standing here by the spring of water, and this is what will happen: when the young woman comes out to draw water, and I say to her, “Please, let me have a little water from your jar to drink,”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said to me, "Please drink, and I will also draw water for your camels." May this be the woman whom the LORD has chosen for my master's son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before I had even finished praying in my heart, Rebekah suddenly appeared, carrying her water jar on her shoulder. She went down to the spring, filled her jar, and came back up. I said to her, "Please, may I have a drink of water?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She quickly lowered her pitcher from her shoulder and said, "Drink, and I will also water your camels." So I drank, and she gave water to the camels as well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I inquired of her, saying, "Whose daughter are you?" She replied, "I am the daughter of Bethuel, the son of Nahor, whom Milcah bore to him." Then I placed the ring on her nose and the bracelets on her wrists.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I bowed my head and worshiped the LORD, and I praised the LORD, the God of my master Abraham, who had guided me on the right path to take the daughter of my master’s brother for his son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, if you intend to act with loyalty and integrity toward my master, let me know; but if not, tell me plainly, so that I may decide whether to proceed in one direction or another.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Laban and Bethuel replied, saying, "This matter comes from the LORD; we cannot say anything to you, whether good or bad."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, Rebekah is here before you. Take her and go, and let her become the wife of your master’s son, just as the LORD has declared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Abraham’s servant heard their words, he bowed down to the ground and worshiped the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The servant brought out silver ornaments, gold jewelry, and fine garments, and presented them to Rebekah. He also gave valuable gifts to her brother and her mother.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they ate and drank together—he and the men who were with him—and they stayed the night. When they rose in the morning, he said, "Let me return to my master."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her brother and her mother said, "Let the young woman stay with us for a while—at least ten days. After that, she may go."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "Do not delay me, for the LORD has made my journey successful. Let me go, so that I may return to my master."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "Let us call the young woman and ask her directly."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">58 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They summoned Rebekah and asked her, "Will you go with this man?" She replied, "I will go."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">59 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sent off their sister Rebekah, along with her nurse, Abraham’s servant, and his men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">60 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They blessed Rebekah and said to her, "You are our sister; may you become the mother of countless thousands, and may your descendants possess the gates of their enemies."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">61 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rebekah got up, along with her female servants, and they mounted the camels and followed the man. So the servant took Rebekah and continued on his journey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">62 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Isaac was returning from the direction of the well called Lahai-roi, for he lived in the Negev region.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">63 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Isaac went out into the field in the evening to reflect and pray. As he looked up, he saw camels approaching in the distance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">64 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rebekah looked up, and when she saw Isaac, she quickly dismounted from her camel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">65 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For she had asked the servant, "Who is this man walking in the field to meet us?" The servant replied, "It is my master." So she took a veil and covered herself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">66 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The servant recounted to Isaac everything he had accomplished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">67 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Isaac brought Rebekah into the tent that had belonged to his mother Sarah. He took her as his wife, and she became his spouse. Isaac loved her deeply, and through her, he found comfort after the death of his mother.</span></p>






</body></html>