<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sog28t.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:30f60a96-e7dd-af7f-874e-c7eb9ee27b71" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now I will sing a song for my beloved, a song about his vineyard. My beloved had a vineyard on a fertile hillside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He cleared the land and removed its stones, then planted it with the finest vines. He built a watchtower in the middle of it and also constructed a winepress. He expected it to produce good grapes, but instead, it yielded wild, worthless grapes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, you who live in Jerusalem and you people of Judah, I ask you to consider and decide between me and my vineyard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What more could I have done for my vineyard that I did not already do? Why, when I expected it to produce good grapes, did it yield only sour, wild grapes?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now listen carefully, for I will declare what I intend to do to my vineyard: I will remove its protective hedge, and it will be devoured; I will tear down its surrounding wall, and it will be trampled underfoot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring it to ruin: it will not be pruned or cultivated, and briers and thorns will overgrow it. Moreover, I will command the clouds not to send rain upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The vineyard belonging to the LORD of hosts is the house of Israel, and the people of Judah are the cherished plants He cultivated. He expected justice to flourish, but instead, He found oppression; He sought righteousness, but instead, He heard cries of distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for those who keep adding house to house and field to field, until there is no more space left, so that they may live alone in the land, with no one else around!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD of hosts has declared to me: "Truly, many houses will become desolate—even those that are large and beautiful—and they will be left without inhabitants."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, ten acres of vineyard will produce only one bath of wine, and a homer of seed will yield only an ephah of grain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for those who get up early in the morning to chase after strong drink, who linger late into the evening until wine makes them burn with drunkenness!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At their feasts, they have harps, lyres, tambourines, flutes, and wine, yet they pay no attention to the work of the LORD, nor do they consider what his hands have accomplished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, my people are taken into captivity because they lack understanding. Their leaders suffer from hunger, and the masses are parched with thirst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the realm of the dead has expanded, opening its mouth beyond measure. Into it will descend their splendor, their vast numbers, their pride, and all who revel in their achievements.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The common person will be brought low, and the powerful will be humbled; even the proud and arrogant will have their pride shattered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the LORD of hosts will be honored through His acts of justice, and the holy God will be revered as holy through His righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the lambs will graze as they normally do, and the deserted pastures of the wealthy will be consumed by outsiders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for those who pull along their wrongdoing as if with ropes of emptiness, and drag their sin behind them as if with a heavy cart's harness!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They say, "Let him hurry and speed up his work so that we may see it! Let the plan of the Holy One of Israel come quickly and be fulfilled, so that we may understand it!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for those who declare evil to be good and good to be evil, who replace darkness with light and light with darkness, who call bitter things sweet and sweet things bitter!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for those who consider themselves wise and clever in their own eyes!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Woe to those who are powerful in drinking wine and strong in mixing intoxicating drinks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are those who acquit the guilty for a bribe and deny justice to the innocent!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, just as fire devours dry stubble and flames consume chaff, so their roots will decay, and their blossoms will scatter like dust. This will happen because they have rejected the law of the LORD of hosts and scorned the word of the Holy One of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD’s anger burns against His people, and He has raised His hand against them, striking them down. The mountains trembled, and their dead bodies lay scattered in the streets. Yet despite all this, His anger has not subsided, and His hand remains raised in judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will raise a signal banner for the distant nations and summon them from the farthest corners of the earth. And look, they will come quickly, with great speed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one among them will grow weary or falter; none will become drowsy or fall asleep. The belt around their waist will not come loose, nor will the strap of their sandals be broken.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their arrows are sharp, and all their bows are drawn taut. Their horses' hooves are as hard as flint, and their chariot wheels spin like a whirlwind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their roaring will be like that of a lion; they will roar like young lions. Indeed, they will roar, seize their prey, and carry it off securely, with no one able to rescue it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, they will roar against them like the roaring of the sea. And if anyone looks toward the land, they will see only darkness and distress; even the light in the heavens will be darkened.</span></p>






</body></html>