<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sog2zg.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d6722733-edb3-b4b7-dc86-7b6e0726c4d4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a prophet or someone who claims to have dreams arises among you and presents you with a sign or a miraculous event,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the sign or wonder that he spoke about to you comes to pass, and he says, "Let us follow other gods, which you have not known, and let us serve them,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams, for the LORD your God is testing you to determine whether you truly love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must follow the LORD your God, revere Him, keep His commandments, obey His voice, serve Him, and remain steadfastly devoted to Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005278"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a prophet or someone who claims to have dreams arises among you and tries to lead you astray, turning you away from the LORD your God—who brought you out of the land of Egypt and rescued you from the house of slavery—urging you to abandon the path the LORD your God has commanded you to follow, that person must be put to death. In this way, you will purge the evil from your midst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005279"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If your brother—your mother’s son—or your son, or your daughter, or the wife you hold dear, or your closest friend, who is as precious to you as your own life, secretly tries to persuade you, saying, “Let us go and worship other gods,” gods that neither you nor your ancestors have known,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005280"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Specifically, concerning the gods of the peoples who live around you, whether they are near to you or far from you, from one end of the earth to the other;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not agree with him, nor listen to him; do not show him pity, do not spare him, and do not protect him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005282"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must certainly put him to death. Your own hand shall be the first to strike him down, and then the hand of all the people shall follow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must stone him to death with stones because he has attempted to lead you away from the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all of Israel will hear of this, be filled with awe, and will no longer commit such evil acts as this among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you hear it said in one of your cities, which the LORD your God has given you to live in, that,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some wicked men, the sons of rebellion, have arisen from among you and have led the residents of their city astray, saying, "Let us go and worship other gods, which you have never known."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you must investigate thoroughly, inquire carefully, and examine the matter diligently. If it is found to be true and confirmed that such a detestable act has been committed among you,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must strike down the inhabitants of that city with the sword, completely destroying it—everything and everyone within it, including its livestock—by the edge of the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to gather all the plunder from the city into the middle of its public square. Then you must completely burn the city and all its plunder as an offering to the LORD your God. The city is to remain a permanent ruin, never to be rebuilt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not let anything that is under the ban remain in your possession, so that the LORD may turn away from the intensity of his anger, show you mercy, have compassion on you, and increase your numbers, as he promised with an oath to your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you listen to the voice of the LORD your God, obeying all His commandments that I am giving you today, and do what is right in the sight of the LORD your God.</span></p>






</body></html>