<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sok2oj.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8fe6129d-db88-82be-e61b-0a730e69bd9a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Solomon declared, "The LORD has said that He will reside in the deep darkness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I have constructed a house as a dwelling place for you, a sanctuary for your eternal residence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king turned to face the assembly and blessed the entire congregation of Israel, and all the people of Israel stood in reverence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "Praise be to the LORD, the God of Israel, who has fulfilled with His own hands what He promised with His own mouth to my father David, saying,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the time I brought my people out of the land of Egypt, I did not select any city among all the tribes of Israel to build a house where my name would dwell. Nor did I choose any man to be a ruler over my people Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I have selected Jerusalem as the place where my name will reside, and I have chosen David to lead and govern my people Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It was in the heart of my father David to build a house for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to my father David, "Because it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you did well in having this desire in your heart."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you will not be the one to build the house; instead, your son, who will be born from your own body, he is the one who will build the house for my name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has therefore fulfilled the word that He spoke: for I have succeeded my father David and now sit on the throne of Israel, just as the LORD promised. I have also built the temple for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have placed within it the ark, which contains the covenant of the LORD, the agreement He established with the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of the entire assembly of Israel and lifted up his hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon had constructed a bronze platform, measuring five cubits in length, five cubits in width, and three cubits in height, and placed it in the center of the courtyard. He stood on it, knelt down on his knees in the presence of the entire assembly of Israel, and stretched out his hands toward heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "O LORD, God of Israel, there is no god like you in heaven or on earth. You keep your covenant and show steadfast love to your servants who walk before you with all their hearts."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have kept the promise you made to your servant David, my father. What you declared with your own mouth, you have accomplished with your own hand, as it is evident today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, O LORD, God of Israel, uphold for your servant David, my father, the promise you made to him when you said, “You will never fail to have a descendant before me to sit on the throne of Israel, provided that your descendants are careful to live in obedience to my law, as you have walked before me.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, O LORD, God of Israel, may your word be confirmed, which you spoke to your servant David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But will God truly dwell with humanity on the earth? Even the highest heavens cannot contain you—how much less this temple that I have built!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, O LORD my God, please give attention to the prayer of your servant and to his plea. Listen to the cry and the prayer that your servant is offering before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May your eyes be open day and night to watch over this house, the place where you have declared your name will dwell. Listen to the prayer that your servant offers toward this place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen to the prayers of your servant and of your people Israel when they pray toward this place. Hear them from your dwelling place, from heaven, and when you hear, forgive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone wrongs their neighbor and is required to take an oath, and that oath is brought before your altar in this temple,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then listen from heaven, act, and judge your servants: punish the wicked by bringing the consequences of their actions upon their own heads, and vindicate the righteous by rewarding them according to their uprightness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If your people Israel are defeated by their enemies because they have sinned against you, and if they turn back to you, acknowledge your name, and pray and plead with you in this temple,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then listen from heaven, forgive the sins of your people Israel, and restore them to the land you gave to them and to their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the heavens are closed and no rain falls because they have sinned against you, yet if they pray toward this place, acknowledge your name, and turn away from their sin when you bring hardship upon them—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then listen from heaven, and forgive the sin of your servants and your people Israel, after you have instructed them in the right way they should live. Send rain upon your land, which you have given to your people as their inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If there is famine in the land, if there is plague, if there is crop blight, mildew, locusts, or swarming insects; if their enemies besiege them in the cities of their land—whatever affliction or sickness may arise—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When any individual or all of your people Israel offer a prayer or plea—each one recognizing their own affliction and distress—and they lift up their hands toward this house,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then listen from heaven, your dwelling place, and forgive, and repay each person according to their ways, since you alone know the hearts of all people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that they may revere you and follow your ways all the days they live in the land you gave to our ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, regarding the foreigner who is not part of your people Israel but has come from a distant land because of your great name, your mighty power, and your outstretched arm—if they come and pray in this temple,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then listen from heaven, your dwelling place, and act according to all that the foreigner asks of you, so that all the peoples of the earth may know your name and revere you, as your people Israel do, and may recognize that this house I have built is dedicated to your name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If your people go out to battle against their enemies, following the path you direct them, and they pray to you, turning toward this city you have chosen and the house I have built in honor of your name,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then listen from heaven to their prayer and their plea, and uphold their case.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If they sin against you—for there is no one who does not sin—and you become angry with them, handing them over to their enemies, who take them as captives to a distant or nearby land;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if they reflect on their situation in the land where they have been taken as captives, and if they turn back to you and pray to you in the land of their captivity, confessing, "We have sinned, we have acted wrongly, and we have behaved wickedly,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If they turn back to you with all their heart and all their soul in the land where they have been taken as captives, and they pray toward the land you gave to their ancestors, toward the city you have chosen, and toward the house I have built for your name,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then listen from heaven, your dwelling place, to their prayer and their pleas. Uphold their cause, and forgive your people who have sinned against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, my God, I earnestly ask that your eyes may be open and your ears attentive to the prayer offered in this place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, rise up, O LORD God, and enter your place of rest—you and the ark of your mighty power. May your priests, O LORD God, be clothed with deliverance, and may your faithful ones rejoice in your abundant goodness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD God, do not turn away from your anointed one; remember the steadfast love and faithfulness you showed to David, your servant.</span></p>






</body></html>