<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 31</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sokmlq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8c60a64f-e954-75c9-6917-2cc4231564fc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 31</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses went and spoke these words to all the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "Today I am one hundred and twenty years old. I am no longer able to go out and come in as I once did. Moreover, the LORD has said to me, 'You shall not cross over this Jordan.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD your God will go ahead of you, and He will destroy these nations before you, so that you may take possession of their land. Joshua will also go before you, just as the LORD has promised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will deal with them just as He dealt with Sihon and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and with their land, which He utterly destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will deliver them into your hands, and you will defeat them. You must deal with them according to all the instructions I have given you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid or terrified of them, for the LORD your God is the one who goes with you. He will not abandon you or leave you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses summoned Joshua and said to him in the presence of all Israel, "Be strong and courageous, for you must lead this people into the land that the LORD swore to their ancestors to give them, and you will enable them to take possession of it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD is the one who goes ahead of you; He will be with you, He will not abandon you or leave you helpless. Do not be afraid or discouraged.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses wrote down this law and entrusted it to the priests, the descendants of Levi, who carried the ark of the LORD's covenant, as well as to all the elders of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses instructed them, saying, "At the end of every seven years, during the appointed time of the year of release, at the Festival of Tabernacles..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all of Israel gathers to present themselves before the LORD your God in the place He will choose, you are to read this law aloud in the hearing of all the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Assemble the people—men, women, children, and the foreigners living among you—so that they may listen, learn, and come to revere the LORD your God. Ensure they carefully follow all the words of this law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that your children, who have not yet experienced or understood these things, may hear and learn to revere the LORD your God, as long as you live in the land you are crossing the Jordan to possess.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Listen, your time is near, and you are about to die. Summon Joshua, and both of you come to the tent of meeting so that I may give him instructions." So Moses and Joshua went and stood before the LORD in the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD appeared in the tabernacle within a pillar of cloud, and the pillar of cloud remained stationed at the entrance of the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Listen, you are about to die and join your ancestors. After your death, these people will rise up and turn away from me, chasing after the foreign gods of the land where they are going to live. They will abandon me and break the covenant I have made with them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, my anger will burn against them, and I will abandon them. I will turn my face away from them, and they will be consumed. Many disasters and hardships will come upon them, so that they will say on that day, "Have these troubles not come upon us because our God is no longer with us?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I will certainly turn away from them on that day because of all the wrongs they have committed, for they have turned to worship other gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, compose this song for yourselves and teach it to the Israelites. Have them learn it by heart, so that this song may serve as a witness for me against the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For when I bring them into the land that I promised to their ancestors, a land flowing with milk and honey, and they eat their fill and grow prosperous, they will then turn to other gods, worship them, and reject me, breaking the covenant I made with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen, when many disasters and troubles come upon them, that this song will stand as a witness against them, for it will not be forgotten by their descendants. I know their intentions, even now, before I have brought them into the land I promised them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Moses wrote this song on that very day and taught it to the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he instructed Joshua, the son of Nun, saying, "Be strong and courageous, for you will lead the Israelites into the land I promised to give them, and I will be with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when Moses had finished writing all the words of this law in a book, completing it entirely,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses instructed the Levites, who carried the ark of the LORD's covenant, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take this book of the law and place it beside the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God, so that it may remain there as a testimony against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I am fully aware of your defiance and your stubbornness. Even now, while I am still alive and present among you, you have shown yourselves to be rebellious against the LORD. How much more, then, will you act in rebellion after my death?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Assemble before me all the elders of your tribes and your leaders, so that I may speak these words in their hearing and call upon heaven and earth as witnesses against them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I know that after my death, you will completely corrupt yourselves and turn away from the path I have commanded you to follow. In the days to come, disaster will overtake you because you will do what is evil in the sight of the LORD, provoking Him to anger by the works of your hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses spoke the words of this song in the hearing of the entire assembly of Israel, continuing until he had finished.</span></p>






</body></html>