<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Peter Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\solbra.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:fd1c263e-9040-f92e-bf26-c0b486832e28" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Peter Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have received a faith as precious as ours through the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May grace and peace be abundantly given to you through the deep understanding of God and of Jesus our Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His divine power has granted us everything we need for life and godliness, through the knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and excellence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through these, we have been granted exceedingly great and precious promises, so that by them you may share in the divine nature, having escaped the moral decay that exists in the world because of selfish desires.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, making every effort, supplement your faith with moral excellence, and to moral excellence, add understanding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To knowledge, add self-control; to self-control, add perseverance; and to perseverance, add godliness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to godliness, add brotherly affection; and to brotherly affection, add love.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if these qualities are present in you and are increasing, they will ensure that you are not ineffective or unproductive in your understanding of our Lord Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the person who lacks these qualities is spiritually blind and shortsighted, having forgotten that they were cleansed from their past sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, my fellow believers, make every effort to confirm your calling and election as God's chosen ones. For if you practice these qualities, you will never stumble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For in this way, a rich and abundant entrance will be provided to you into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will make every effort to continually remind you of these truths, even though you already know them and are firmly grounded in the present reality of this teaching.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, I consider it fitting, as long as I remain in this earthly body, to encourage you by reminding you of these things.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am aware that I will soon lay aside this earthly dwelling of mine, just as our Lord Jesus Christ has made clear to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, I will make every effort to ensure that after my departure, you will always be able to recall these things clearly and keep them in mind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For we did not follow cleverly crafted myths when we proclaimed to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he received honor and glory from God the Father when a voice came to him from the majestic glory, saying, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I take great delight."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We ourselves heard this voice that came from heaven when we were with Him on the sacred mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We also possess a more certain message of prophecy, to which you do well to pay close attention, as to a light shining in a dark place, until the day breaks and the morning star rises in your hearts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">First and foremost, understand this: no prophecy in Scripture comes from someone’s own interpretation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For prophecy was never brought forth in ancient times by human will, but rather, holy men of God spoke as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.</span></p>






</body></html>