<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\som6mf.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5c2d7c5e-cf62-84e4-3d98-73f085c93a4e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Set apart for me every firstborn, whether human or animal, that opens the womb among the Israelites. They belong to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to the people, "Remember this day, the day you came out of Egypt, out of the place of slavery, because the LORD brought you out of there by his mighty power. No bread made with yeast is to be eaten."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On this day, you came out in the month of Abib.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the LORD brings you into the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Hivites, and Jebusites—the land He promised your ancestors He would give you, a land abundant with milk and honey—you are to observe this ceremony in this month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For seven days you must eat bread made without yeast, and on the seventh day there will be a festival in honor of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For seven days, you must eat unleavened bread. No leavened bread should be found with you, nor should any leaven be seen anywhere within your territory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, you shall explain to your child, saying, "This is done because of what the LORD did for me when I came out of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This shall serve as a sign for you on your hand and as a reminder between your eyes, so that the instruction of the LORD may always be on your lips. For it was by His mighty power that the LORD brought you out of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must observe this regulation at its appointed time every year.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when the LORD brings you into the land of the Canaanites, as he swore to you and to your ancestors, and gives it to you,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to dedicate to the LORD every firstborn that opens the womb, and every firstborn male from your livestock. These males shall belong to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must redeem every firstborn donkey by offering a lamb in its place. If you choose not to redeem it, you must break its neck. Additionally, you must redeem every firstborn son among your children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When your child asks you in the future, saying, “What does this mean?” you shall tell them, “The LORD brought us out of Egypt, out of the house of slavery, by His mighty power.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Pharaoh stubbornly refused to let us go, the LORD struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt—both the firstborn of humans and the firstborn of animals. For this reason, I dedicate to the LORD every firstborn male that opens the womb, but I redeem all the firstborn of my children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This shall serve as a sign on your hand and as a reminder on your forehead, for it was by the LORD's mighty power that He brought us out of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Pharaoh finally allowed the people to leave, God did not guide them along the road through the land of the Philistines, even though it was the shorter route. For God said, "If the people face war, they might change their minds and return to Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But God guided the people by leading them around through the wilderness toward the Red Sea. The Israelites marched out of the land of Egypt prepared for battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses took Joseph’s bones with him, because Joseph had made the Israelites solemnly swear, saying, “God will certainly come to your aid, and then you must carry my bones up from this place with you.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They set out from Succoth and made camp in Etham, on the border of the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD guided them during the day by a pillar of cloud to lead them on their journey, and at night by a pillar of fire to give them light, so they could travel both day and night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He did not remove the pillar of cloud during the day or the pillar of fire at night from leading the people.</span></p>






</body></html>