<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\somsn6.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:28a30894-62a7-9973-028d-23623fd228c9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon formed a political alliance with Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, by marrying Pharaoh’s daughter. He brought her to the City of David until he had completed the construction of his own palace, the house of the LORD, and the surrounding wall of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people continued to offer sacrifices at the high places, because no temple had yet been built dedicated to the name of the LORD up to that time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon loved the LORD and followed the decrees of his father David. However, he continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense at the high places.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king went to Gibeon to offer sacrifices there, for it was the most significant high place. Solomon presented a thousand burnt offerings on that altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In Gibeon, the LORD appeared to Solomon in a dream during the night, and God said, "Ask what you desire, and I will give it to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon said, "You have shown great and steadfast love to Your servant David, my father, because he walked before You in faithfulness, with integrity of heart and uprightness. You have continued this great kindness toward him by giving him a son to sit on his throne, as is the case today."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, O LORD my God, you have made your servant king in place of my father David. Yet I am only a young and inexperienced person; I do not know how to lead or govern effectively.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your servant is among your chosen people, a vast and countless multitude, too numerous to measure or tally.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Grant your servant, therefore, a discerning heart to govern your people and to distinguish between right and wrong. For who is capable of judging this great people of yours?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord was pleased with Solomon’s request, for he had asked for this thing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And God said to him, "Because you have requested this thing, and have not asked for a long life for yourself, nor for wealth, nor for the lives of your enemies, but have asked for understanding to discern justice and judgment,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, I have granted your request: I have given you a wise and discerning heart. No one like you has existed before, nor will anyone like you arise after you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have also granted you what you did not ask for—both wealth and honor—so that no king will be your equal throughout your lifetime.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you walk in my ways, keeping my statutes and commandments, as your father David did, then I will grant you a long life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon woke up and realized it had been a dream. He then went to Jerusalem and stood before the ark of the LORD's covenant. There, he presented burnt offerings and peace offerings, and he held a feast for all his servants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then two women, who were prostitutes, came to the king and stood before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then one of the women said, "Please, my lord, this woman and I live in the same house, and I gave birth to a child while she was there with me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the third day after I had given birth, this woman also gave birth. We were together in the house, and there was no one else with us—only the two of us were in the house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And during the night, this woman’s child died because she accidentally lay on him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She got up at midnight and took my son from beside me while I, your servant, was asleep. She laid him in her arms and placed her dead child in mine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I got up in the morning to nurse my child, I found that he was dead. But when I looked closely at him in the daylight, I realized it was not the son I had given birth to.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the other woman responded, "No! The living child is my son, and the dead one is yours." But the first woman insisted, "No! The dead child is yours, and the living one is mine." In this way, they argued before the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king said, "One woman claims, 'This is my living son, and your son is the dead one,' while the other insists, 'No, your son is the dead one, and my son is the living one.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king commanded, "Bring me a sword." So they brought a sword and presented it before the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king declared, "Cut the living child in two, and give half to one woman and half to the other."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the woman whose child was alive spoke to the king, for her heart was deeply moved with compassion for her son, and she said, “Please, my lord, give her the living child, and by no means kill him.” But the other woman said, “He shall be neither mine nor yours—let him be divided!”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king responded and declared, "Give her the living child, and do not kill it under any circumstances—she is its mother."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire nation of Israel heard about the decision the king had made, and they stood in awe of him. They recognized that the wisdom of God was within him, enabling him to administer justice rightly.</span></p>






</body></html>