<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sos2kd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:88b90c9c-cc1d-7059-fbc8-8cec1768d6e5" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the account of Aaron and Moses during the time when the LORD spoke with Moses on Mount Sinai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the names of Aaron’s sons: Nadab, the firstborn, followed by Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the names of Aaron’s sons, the priests who were anointed and set apart to serve in the priestly duties.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nadab and Abihu died in the presence of the LORD when they presented unauthorized fire before Him in the wilderness of Sinai. They had no children, so Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests under the supervision of their father Aaron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Summon the tribe of Levi and bring them before Aaron the priest, so that they may serve and assist him in his duties.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall faithfully carry out their duties and the responsibilities of the entire community in front of the tent of meeting, performing the work required for the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall be responsible for maintaining all the equipment of the tent of meeting and for fulfilling their duties on behalf of the Israelites, ensuring the proper service of the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall assign the Levites to Aaron and his sons; they are entirely dedicated to him from among the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall appoint Aaron and his sons to serve in their priestly duties. Any unauthorized person who approaches to perform these sacred tasks must be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, I have chosen the Levites from among the Israelites to take the place of all the firstborn sons who are the first to open the womb among the Israelites. Therefore, the Levites will belong to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For every firstborn belongs to me. On the day I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I set apart for myself all the firstborn in Israel, both of people and animals. They are mine; I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Count the descendants of Levi according to their ancestral families and clans. You are to register every male who is one month old or older.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses counted them in accordance with the LORD's instruction, just as he had been commanded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These were the sons of Levi, listed by their names: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the names of Gershon’s sons, listed according to their family lines: Libni and Shimei.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Kohath, grouped by their families, were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Merari, grouped by their families, were Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites, organized according to their ancestral households.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Gershon came the family of the Libnites and the family of the Shimites. These are the clans of the Gershonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of males recorded among them, counting every male from one month old and above, was seven thousand five hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The families of the Gershonites shall set up their camp on the west side, behind the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leader of the family of the Gershonites shall be Eliasaph, the son of Lael.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The responsibility of the descendants of Gershon in the tent of meeting shall include the care of the tabernacle itself, its tent, its covering, and the curtain for the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The curtains surrounding the courtyard, along with the screen for the entrance of the courtyard that is near the tabernacle and the altar, as well as the ropes used for all the related tasks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Kohath came the family of the Amramites, the family of the Izharites, the family of the Hebronites, and the family of the Uzzielites. These are the families of the Kohathites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of males, from one month old and above, was eight thousand six hundred, who were responsible for the duties of the sanctuary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The clans descended from Kohath shall set up their camp on the south side of the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leader of the ancestral families of the Kohathites shall be Elizaphan, the son of Uzziel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their responsibility will be to care for the ark, the table, the lampstand, the altars, the sacred utensils used in worship, the curtain, and all the tasks related to these items.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, shall hold the highest authority over the leaders of the Levites and will oversee those who are responsible for maintaining the duties of the sanctuary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Merari came the family of the Mahlites and the family of the Mushites. These are the families descended from Merari.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of males recorded among them, counting every male from one month old and above, was six thousand two hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leader of the ancestral house of the Merarite families was Zuriel, the son of Abihail. They were assigned to camp on the north side of the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The responsibility of the sons of Merari will include the frames of the tabernacle, its crossbars, its posts, its bases, all its equipment, and everything related to its service.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the posts surrounding the courtyard, along with their bases, their pegs, and their ropes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses, Aaron, and his sons shall camp in front of the tabernacle, to the east, facing the entrance of the tent of meeting. They are responsible for overseeing the duties of the sanctuary, fulfilling their obligations on behalf of the Israelites. Any unauthorized person who approaches the sanctuary must be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of Levites counted by Moses and Aaron, as the LORD had commanded, according to their families—all the males from one month old and above—was twenty-two thousand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Count all the firstborn males among the Israelites who are one month old or older, and record each of their names."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to set apart the Levites for me—I am the LORD—in place of all the firstborn among the Israelites, and the livestock of the Levites in place of all the firstborn livestock of the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses counted all the firstborn males among the Israelites, just as the LORD had instructed him to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of firstborn males, listed by name, who were one month old or older, was 22,273. This count was taken from those who had been registered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Set apart the Levites in place of all the firstborn among the Israelites, and the livestock of the Levites in place of their livestock. The Levites will belong to me; I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And for the 273 firstborn of the Israelites who exceed the number of the Levites, those who are to be redeemed—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall collect five shekels for each person, according to the standard shekel of the sanctuary (the shekel being equal to twenty gerahs).</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall give the money used to redeem the excess number of them to Aaron and his sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses collected the redemption money from those who exceeded the number redeemed by the Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He collected the redemption money from the firstborn of the Israelites, amounting to 1,365 shekels, according to the sanctuary shekel standard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses gave the redemption money to Aaron and his sons, following the LORD's instruction, just as the LORD had commanded him.</span></p>






</body></html>