<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 31</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\soukl3.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d79a3e36-656c-9e43-f0a2-d19bf955750e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 31</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all this was completed, all the Israelites who were present went out to the cities of Judah. They smashed the carved idols, cut down the sacred poles, and tore down the high places and altars throughout Judah and Benjamin, as well as in Ephraim and Manasseh, until they had completely destroyed them all. Then all the people of Israel returned, each to their own property and their own towns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah organized the divisions of the priests and the Levites according to their assigned duties, each group fulfilling its specific role. The priests and Levites were appointed to oversee the burnt offerings and peace offerings, to serve in worship, to offer thanksgiving, and to give praise at the entrances of the LORD’s dwelling places.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also designated a portion of the king’s wealth for the burnt offerings—specifically for the morning and evening burnt offerings, as well as those for the Sabbaths, the new moons, and the appointed festivals, as prescribed in the law of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, he ordered the people living in Jerusalem to provide the designated portions for the priests and the Levites, so that they might devote themselves fully to the instruction and service of the LORD’s law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As soon as the decree was issued, the people of Israel brought in a great quantity of the firstfruits of grain, wine, olive oil, honey, and all the produce of the fields. They also brought in the tithe of everything in generous amounts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding the people of Israel and Judah who lived in the cities of Judah, they also brought the tithe of their oxen and sheep, as well as the tithe of the sacred offerings that had been dedicated to the LORD their God. They gathered these contributions and piled them up in heaps.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the third month, they started to establish the foundation of the storehouses, and they completed the work in the seventh month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Hezekiah and the leaders arrived and saw the abundant piles, they praised the LORD and blessed His people Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Hezekiah consulted with the priests and the Levites about the piles of offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Azariah, the chief priest from the house of Zadok, responded to him, saying, "From the time the people started bringing their offerings into the house of the LORD, we have had more than enough to eat, and there is plenty left over. For the LORD has blessed His people, and this great abundance is what remains."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Hezekiah gave orders to prepare rooms in the house of the Lord, and they prepared them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They faithfully brought in the offerings, the tithes, and the consecrated gifts. Cononiah the Levite was in charge of these, with his brother Shimei as his assistant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismachiah, Mahath, and Benaiah served as supervisors under the authority of Cononiah and his brother Shimei. They carried out their duties by the command of King Hezekiah and Azariah, the chief officer of the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Kore, the son of Imnah the Levite, who served as the gatekeeper on the east side, was entrusted with overseeing the freewill offerings given to God. His responsibility was to distribute the offerings dedicated to the LORD, including the most sacred items.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to him were Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah, who served in the cities of the priests. They were appointed to their specific duties to distribute portions to their fellow priests, both to the prominent and to the lesser, according to their assigned roles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In addition to the list of males, from three years old and above, including everyone who enters the house of the LORD, each one received his daily portion for their duties in their assigned tasks, according to their divisions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This includes the family records of the priests according to their ancestral houses, as well as the Levites who were twenty years old and above, assigned to their duties and responsibilities in their respective divisions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning the family records of all their children, their wives, their sons, and their daughters—throughout the entire assembly—they dedicated themselves to holiness in their appointed duties, setting themselves apart as sacred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, concerning the descendants of Aaron, the priests who lived in the fields surrounding their cities—in each individual city—there were men specifically designated by name to distribute portions to all the males among the priests and to all those recorded in the genealogies of the Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah acted in this manner throughout all of Judah, doing what was good, right, and faithful in the sight of the LORD his God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In every task he undertook for the service of God’s house, in following the law and the commandments, and in seeking his God, he acted wholeheartedly and succeeded.</span></p>






</body></html>