<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\souzgm.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c1a2f8d3-9846-7fab-3dd0-65bd5a7c4420" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Rehoboam had secured his reign and consolidated his power, he abandoned the law of the LORD, and all Israel followed him in this rebellion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fifth year of King Rehoboam’s reign, Shishak, the king of Egypt, marched against Jerusalem. This occurred because the people had been unfaithful to the LORD and had violated His commands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He had twelve hundred chariots and sixty thousand horsemen, and the troops that came with him from Egypt were beyond counting—including the Libyans, Sukkiites, and Ethiopians.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He captured the fortified cities that belonged to Judah and advanced to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the prophet Shemaiah came to Rehoboam and the leaders of Judah who had gathered in Jerusalem because of Shishak, and he said to them, "This is what the LORD says: 'You have abandoned me, so I have also abandoned you to the power of Shishak.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the leaders of Israel and the king humbled themselves and declared, "The LORD is just."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the LORD observed that they had humbled themselves, the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah, saying, "Because they have humbled themselves, I will not bring destruction upon them. Instead, I will grant them a measure of deliverance, and my wrath will not be poured out on Jerusalem through the hand of Shishak."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they will become his servants so that they may learn the difference between serving me and serving the kingdoms of other lands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Shishak, the king of Egypt, advanced against Jerusalem and seized the treasures of the house of the LORD, as well as the treasures of the king’s palace. He took everything. He also carried off the golden shields that Solomon had made.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In place of the golden shields, King Rehoboam made shields of bronze and entrusted them to the commanders of the royal guard, who were stationed at the entrance to the king’s palace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the king went into the house of the LORD, the guards came and took them, then returned them to the guardroom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he humbled himself, the anger of the LORD turned away from him, so that He did not completely destroy him. Moreover, in Judah, things prospered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So King Rehoboam established his rule firmly in Jerusalem and reigned. Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he became king, and he ruled for seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city that the LORD had chosen from all the tribes of Israel to place His name there. His mother’s name was Naamah, an Ammonite woman.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He acted wickedly because he did not set his heart to truly seek the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The events of Rehoboam’s reign, from beginning to end, are recorded in the writings of Shemaiah the prophet and Iddo the seer, particularly concerning genealogies. Throughout his reign, there were constant conflicts between Rehoboam and Jeroboam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rehoboam died and was buried in the City of David alongside his ancestors. His son Abijah succeeded him as king.</span></p>






</body></html>