<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Philippians Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sp1g0y.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2d87ebb0-fb11-d9c1-a9bb-51b654d8855d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Philippians Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Finally, my brothers and sisters, find your joy in the Lord. Writing the same things to you again is not burdensome for me, and for you, it serves as a safeguard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be cautious of those who are like vicious dogs, watch out for those who do evil, and be on guard against those who mutilate the flesh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For we are the true circumcision—those who worship God by the Spirit, take pride in Christ Jesus, and place no trust in human effort or status.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Though I could also place my confidence in human achievements, if anyone else thinks they have reason to trust in their own merits, I have even more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I was circumcised on the eighth day, as the law requires. I am descended from the people of Israel, from the tribe of Benjamin, a true Hebrew of Hebrew heritage. In regard to the law, I was a Pharisee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In terms of zeal, I was a persecutor of the church; as for the righteousness that comes through the law, I was faultless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the things that I once considered valuable and advantageous, I now regard as worthless and a loss for the sake of Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, and I consider everything as worthless compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For His sake, I have willingly let go of all things and regard them as mere rubbish, so that I may gain Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And may I be found in Him, not possessing a righteousness of my own that comes from following the law, but rather the righteousness that comes through faith in Christ—the righteousness that God provides, received by faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My desire is to truly know Him—to experience the power of His resurrection and to share in the fellowship of His sufferings, becoming like Him even in His death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If somehow I might reach the goal of being raised from the dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I do not claim to have already achieved this or to have already reached perfection, but I press on to take hold of that for which Christ Jesus took hold of me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Brothers and sisters, I do not consider that I have already attained perfection, but I focus on this one thing: leaving behind what is past and striving forward toward what lies ahead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I strive toward the goal to win the prize of God’s heavenly calling in Christ Jesus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let all of us who are mature in faith adopt this same perspective. And if in any matter you think differently, God will make this clear to you as well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, in regard to the progress we have already made, let us continue to live by the same principles and remain united in purpose.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Brothers and sisters, join together in following my example, and take note of those who live according to the pattern you have seen in us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many people live in a way that I have often warned you about, and now I tell you again with deep sorrow—they are enemies of the cross of Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their ultimate fate is destruction, their god is their own desires, and they take pride in what should bring them shame. Their thoughts are focused only on earthly matters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our citizenship is in heaven, and from there we eagerly await the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who will transform our lowly body, so that it may be conformed to his glorious body, by the power that enables him to bring all things under his authority.</span></p>






</body></html>