<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sp1on3.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:29c78be0-f8ed-0455-5403-25b9a7d95f4a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the third year of Hoshea son of Elah, king of Israel, Hezekiah, the son of Ahaz, king of Judah, became king and began his reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned for twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Abi, the daughter of Zachariah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He acted in a way that was right and pleasing to the LORD, following the example of his father David in all that he did.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He destroyed the high places, smashed the sacred pillars, and cut down the Asherah poles. He also shattered the bronze serpent that Moses had made, because up to that time the Israelites had been burning incense to it. He called it "Nehushtan," meaning "a mere piece of bronze."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He placed his trust in the LORD, the God of Israel, so that there was no king like him among all the kings of Judah, either before or after him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he remained steadfastly devoted to the LORD and did not turn away from following Him. He faithfully observed the commandments that the LORD had given to Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD was with him, and he succeeded in everything he undertook. He rebelled against the king of Assyria and refused to serve him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He struck down the Philistines all the way to Gaza and its surrounding territories, from the watchtower to the fortified city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fourth year of King Hezekiah’s reign, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah, king of Israel, Shalmaneser, king of Assyria, advanced against Samaria and laid siege to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After three years, they captured it. In the sixth year of Hezekiah’s reign, which was the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel, Samaria was conquered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Assyria took the people of Israel captive and brought them to Assyria. He settled them in Halah, in Habor along the river Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they did not obey the voice of the LORD their God, but instead violated His covenant and disregarded all that Moses, the servant of the LORD, had commanded—refusing to listen or act upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah’s reign, Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, advanced against all the fortified cities of Judah and captured them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah, the king of Judah, sent a message to the king of Assyria, who was at Lachish, saying, "I have done wrong; withdraw from me, and I will bear whatever penalty you impose on me." The king of Assyria then demanded that Hezekiah, king of Judah, pay him three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah handed over to him all the silver that was discovered in the house of the LORD and in the treasuries of the royal palace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, Hezekiah removed the gold from the doors of the temple of the LORD and from the pillars that Hezekiah, king of Judah, had covered with gold, and he gave it to the king of Assyria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Assyria dispatched Tartan, Rabsaris, and Rabshakeh from Lachish to King Hezekiah with a massive army to confront Jerusalem. They advanced and arrived at Jerusalem. When they reached the city, they positioned themselves by the aqueduct of the upper pool, which lies along the road to the launderer's field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they summoned the king, Eliakim son of Hilkiah, who was in charge of the royal household, came out to them, along with Shebna the secretary and Joah son of Asaph, the court recorder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the Rabshakeh said to them, "Tell Hezekiah this message from the great king, the king of Assyria: What is this confidence you rely on?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You claim—though your words are empty—that you have wise counsel and strength for battle. But in whom do you truly place your trust, that you dare to rebel against me?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, look, you are relying on this splintered and fragile reed—Egypt—as your support. If someone leans on it, it will break and pierce their hand. This is exactly what Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, is like to all who put their trust in him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you say to me, "We trust in the LORD our God," is it not the same God whose high places and altars Hezekiah has removed, commanding Judah and Jerusalem, "You must worship only before this altar in Jerusalem"?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, I ask you to make a binding agreement with my lord, the king of Assyria, and I will provide you with two thousand horses—if you are able to supply riders for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How then can you turn away the face of even the least significant officer among my master’s servants, while placing your trust in Egypt for chariots and horsemen?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have I now come to attack and destroy this place without the Lord’s approval? The Lord himself commanded me, “Go up against this land and destroy it.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, along with Shebna and Joah, said to the Rabshakeh, "Please, speak to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it. Do not speak to us in Hebrew in the hearing of the people who are on the wall."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Rabshakeh replied to them, "Has my master sent me to speak these words only to your master and to you? Has he not sent me to address the men sitting on the wall—those who will soon be reduced to eating their own excrement and drinking their own urine along with you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Rabshakeh stood and called out in a loud voice, speaking in the language of the Jews, saying, "Listen to the words of the great king, the king of Assyria!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the king says: Do not let Hezekiah mislead you, for he cannot rescue you from my power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not let Hezekiah persuade you to place your trust in the LORD by saying, "The LORD will certainly rescue us, and this city will not be handed over to the king of Assyria."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not listen to Hezekiah, for this is what the king of Assyria says: Make peace with me by offering a tribute, and come out to surrender. Then each of you will continue to enjoy the fruit of your own vine and fig tree, and each will drink water from your own cistern.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Until I arrive and take you to a land similar to your own—a land rich with grain and wine, a land abundant with bread and vineyards, a land flowing with olive oil and honey—so that you may live and not die. Do not listen to Hezekiah when he tries to persuade you by saying, "The LORD will rescue us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Has any of the gods of the nations ever rescued their land from the power of the king of Assyria?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivah? Did they rescue Samaria from my power?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who among all the gods of these nations has been able to rescue their land from my power? How then can the LORD deliver Jerusalem from my hand?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people remained silent and did not respond to him at all, for the king had given a command, saying, "Do not answer him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, who was in charge of the royal household, along with Shebna the secretary and Joah, the son of Asaph the court recorder, came to Hezekiah. Their garments were torn as a sign of distress, and they reported to him the words of Rabshakeh.</span></p>






</body></html>