<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Zechariah Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sp25sy.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c06114f0-49bc-5b52-8818-fb05728fdebc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Zechariah Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eighth month of the second year of King Darius’s reign, the word of the LORD came to Zechariah, the son of Berechiah and grandson of Iddo the prophet, with this message:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has been deeply angered by your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, say to them, "This is what the LORD of hosts declares: Return to me," says the LORD of hosts, "and I will return to you," says the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not follow the example of your ancestors, to whom the earlier prophets proclaimed, saying, "This is what the LORD of hosts declares: Turn now from your wicked ways and your evil deeds." But they did not listen or pay attention to me, says the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Where are your ancestors now? And do the prophets live forever?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But did not my words and my decrees, which I commanded my servants the prophets, take hold of your ancestors? They turned back and acknowledged, "Just as the LORD of hosts determined to do to us, in keeping with our ways and our actions, so he has dealt with us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month of Shevat, in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came to Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo the prophet, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the night, I had a vision: I saw a man riding a red horse, standing among the myrtle trees in a low valley. Behind him were other horses—red, speckled, and white.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said, "My lord, what do these things mean?" The angel who was speaking with me replied, "I will show you what these are."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man who was standing among the myrtle trees responded and said, "These are the ones whom the LORD has sent to travel back and forth across the earth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The messengers responded to the angel of the LORD who was standing among the myrtle trees, saying, "We have traveled throughout the earth, and indeed, the whole earth is calm and at peace."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the angel of the LORD responded and said, "O LORD of hosts, how long will you withhold mercy from Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, against which you have been angry for these seventy years?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD responded to the angel who was speaking with me, giving him words that were both good and encouraging.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel who was speaking with me said, "Proclaim this message: This is what the LORD of hosts declares: I am deeply passionate for Jerusalem and for Zion with an intense and fervent zeal."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am deeply angered by the nations that live in comfort and security. Though I was only slightly displeased with my people, these nations eagerly intensified their suffering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says: I have returned to Jerusalem with compassion. My temple will be rebuilt there, declares the LORD of hosts, and a measuring line will be stretched out over Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Proclaim this message, declaring what the LORD of hosts says: "My cities will once again overflow with prosperity, and the LORD will again bring comfort to Zion. He will once more choose Jerusalem."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I raised my eyes and looked, and there before me were four horns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I asked the angel who was speaking with me, "What are these?" He replied, "These are the horns that have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD showed me four craftsmen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I asked, "What is the purpose of these?" He replied, "These are the horns that have scattered Judah, leaving no one able to lift their head in dignity. But now they have come to terrify and overthrow the horns of the nations that raised their power against the land of Judah to scatter its people."</span></p>






</body></html>