<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezra Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sp46rn.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:68684daf-6776-5749-2d10-42fa2b710a1b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezra Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the prophets, Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo, delivered messages from the God of Israel to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem, speaking directly to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, arose and began to rebuild the house of God in Jerusalem. The prophets of God were with them, providing support and assistance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, Tatnai, the governor of the region west of the Euphrates River, along with Shethar-boznai and their associates, came to them and asked, "Who authorized you to rebuild this temple and restore this wall?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then we asked them in this way, "What are the names of the men who are constructing this building?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the watchful care of their God was upon the elders of the Jews, so that their enemies could not stop them until the matter was brought before King Darius. At that time, they sent a written reply concerning this issue.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A copy of the letter that Tatnai, the governor of the region west of the Euphrates River, along with Shethar-boznai and his associates, the officials of the region west of the river, sent to King Darius:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sent a letter to him, which read as follows: To King Darius, may you have complete peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let it be made known to the king that we went to the province of Judea, to the house of the great God. This temple is being constructed with massive stones, and wooden beams are set into the walls. The work is progressing rapidly and is succeeding under their direction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We then questioned the elders and said to them, "Who gave you the authority to rebuild this temple and restore these walls?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We also inquired about their names to inform you, so that we might record the names of the men who were their leaders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They responded to us, saying, "We are servants of the God of heaven and earth, and we are rebuilding the house that was constructed many years ago, which a great king of Israel built and established."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, after our ancestors provoked the God of heaven to anger, He handed them over to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, the Chaldean. Nebuchadnezzar destroyed this temple and took the people captive to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the first year of King Cyrus of Babylon, Cyrus himself issued a decree to rebuild this house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The gold and silver vessels from the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the temple in Jerusalem and brought to the temple in Babylon, were retrieved by King Cyrus. He entrusted them to a man named Sheshbazzar, whom he had appointed as governor, and they were delivered into his care.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to him, "Take these sacred vessels, go, and bring them to the temple in Jerusalem. Let the house of God be rebuilt on its original site."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Sheshbazzar came and laid the foundation of the house of God in Jerusalem. From that time until now, the work has been ongoing, but it has not yet been completed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, if it pleases the king, let a search be conducted in the royal archives stored in Babylon to determine whether King Cyrus indeed issued a decree authorizing the rebuilding of this house of God in Jerusalem. Then, let the king inform us of his decision regarding this matter.</span></p>






</body></html>