<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 38</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sp5wpj.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d0588a86-445a-1b4c-6e2c-7bb8a44668d7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 38</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed the altar for burnt offerings out of acacia wood. It was square, measuring five cubits in length and five cubits in width, and it stood three cubits high.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted horns on each of its four corners, and the horns were made as one piece with it. Then he covered the entire structure with bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted all the utensils for the altar—the pots, shovels, basins, meat hooks, and firepans. He made all these tools from bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed a bronze grating in the form of a net and placed it beneath the ledge of the altar, extending halfway up from the base.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He made four rings and attached them to the four corners of the bronze grating, so that they would serve as holders for the carrying poles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He made the poles from acacia wood and covered them with bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He inserted the poles into the rings on the sides of the altar, so that it could be carried. He constructed the altar to be hollow, using wooden boards.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted the basin of bronze, along with its stand, also made of bronze, using the mirrors contributed by the women who served at the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed the courtyard: on the south side, the hangings of the courtyard were made of finely twisted linen, measuring one hundred cubits in length.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The posts numbered twenty, and their bronze bases also numbered twenty. The hooks of the posts and their connecting bands were made of silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the north side, the curtains were one hundred cubits long, supported by twenty pillars with twenty bronze bases. The hooks of the pillars and their connecting bands were made of silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the west side, there were curtains measuring fifty cubits, supported by ten pillars set in ten bases. The hooks of the pillars and their connecting bands were made of silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the eastern side, the measurement shall be fifty cubits in length.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The curtains on one side of the gate were fifteen cubits long, supported by three pillars and three bases.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the opposite side of the courtyard gate, on both the left and right, there were curtains measuring fifteen cubits in length, supported by three pillars and set in three bases.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the curtains surrounding the courtyard were made of finely twisted linen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bases for the pillars were made of bronze; the hooks of the pillars and their bands were of silver; the tops of the pillars were overlaid with silver; and all the pillars of the courtyard were fitted with silver bands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The curtain for the entrance of the courtyard was skillfully embroidered with blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and finely twisted linen. It was twenty cubits long and five cubits high, matching the height of the courtyard curtains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The pillars were four in number, and they had four bronze bases. Their hooks were made of silver, and the tops of the pillars as well as their connecting bands were overlaid with silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the tent pegs for the tabernacle and for the surrounding courtyard were made of bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the total account of the tabernacle, specifically the tabernacle of the covenant, as it was recorded according to the command of Moses. The work was carried out under the direction of Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest, for the service of the Levites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Bezalel, the son of Uri and grandson of Hur, from the tribe of Judah, crafted everything exactly as the LORD had instructed Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">With him was Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan. Oholiab was a skilled craftsman, an engraver, and a designer, skilled in weaving with blue, purple, and scarlet threads, as well as fine linen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total amount of gold used for all the work of the holy place—including the gold that was presented as an offering—was twenty-nine talents and seven hundred and thirty shekels, measured according to the sanctuary shekel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total amount of silver collected from those who were counted in the congregation was one hundred talents and one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels, measured according to the sanctuary shekel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each man is to contribute a bekah, which is half a shekel, according to the standard weight of the sanctuary shekel. This applies to everyone who is counted in the census, from twenty years old and above. The total number of men counted was six hundred three thousand, five hundred and fifty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the hundred talents of silver, the bases for the sanctuary and the bases for the curtain were made—one hundred bases in total, each requiring one talent of silver. Thus, one talent of silver was used for each base.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the 1,775 shekels, he crafted hooks for the pillars, covered their capitals, and bound them with bands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bronze from the offering amounted to seventy talents and two thousand four hundred shekels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">With these materials, he crafted the bases for the entrance of the tent of meeting, the bronze altar, the bronze grating for it, and all the utensils for the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bases surrounding the courtyard, the bases for the entrance of the courtyard, all the tent pegs for the tabernacle, and all the tent pegs around the courtyard.</span></p>






</body></html>