<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sp7oz8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:23e453e3-eb50-6574-9be0-a67715bf5f31" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD sent Nathan to David. When Nathan arrived, he said to him, "There were two men in a certain city. One was wealthy, and the other was poor."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wealthy man possessed an immense number of sheep and cattle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the poor man had nothing except one small ewe lamb, which he had purchased and raised. It grew up alongside him and his children, sharing his food and drinking from his cup. It even rested in his arms and was like a daughter to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A traveler came to the wealthy man, but the rich man chose not to take from his own flock or herd to prepare a meal for the visitor who had arrived. Instead, he took the poor man’s lamb and prepared it for the man who had come to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David became extremely angry at the man and said to Nathan, "As surely as the LORD lives, the man who did this deserves to die!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He must repay the lamb four times over, because he committed this act and showed no compassion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nathan said to David, "You are the man! This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: I anointed you as king over Israel, and I rescued you from the power of Saul."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I granted you your master’s household and placed your master’s wives in your care. I also gave you the house of Israel and Judah. And if that had not been enough, I would have given you even more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why have you disregarded the command of the LORD and done what is evil in His sight? You struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword, took his wife to be your own, and caused his death by the sword of the Ammonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From this time forward, conflict and violence will never cease within your household, for you have shown contempt for me by taking Uriah the Hittite’s wife to be your own.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Listen carefully, I am going to bring disaster upon you from within your own household. I will take your wives and give them to another man, who will sleep with them in broad daylight, right before your eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You acted in secret, but I will carry out this deed in the presence of all Israel and under the light of the sun.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Nathan, "I have sinned against the LORD." Nathan replied to David, "The LORD has forgiven your sin; you will not die."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, because by this act you have provided a significant reason for the enemies of the LORD to speak irreverently against Him, the child who is born to you will certainly die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nathan left and returned to his home. Then the LORD afflicted the child that Uriah’s wife had borne to David, and the child became gravely ill.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David pleaded with God for the child; he fasted and went into his house, where he spent the night lying on the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The senior officials of his household came to him and tried to lift him up from the ground, but he refused to rise, nor would he eat any food with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day, the child died. David’s servants were afraid to tell him that the child had passed away, for they said, “When the child was still alive, we spoke to him, and he would not listen to us. How much more distressed will he be if we tell him the child is dead?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David noticed that his servants were whispering among themselves, he realized that the child had died. So David asked his servants, "Has the child died?" They replied, "Yes, he is dead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David got up from the ground, washed himself, anointed his body with oil, and changed his clothes. He went into the house of the LORD and worshiped. Afterward, he returned to his own house, and when he asked for food, they served him a meal, and he ate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then his servants said to him, "Why have you done this? While the child was still alive, you fasted and wept; but now that the child has died, you get up and eat food."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept, because I thought, 'Who knows? Perhaps the LORD will show me favor, and the child will live.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But now that he is dead, why should I fast? Can I bring him back to life? I will go to him one day, but he will not return to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David comforted his wife Bathsheba and went to her, and they were intimate together. She gave birth to a son, and David named him Solomon. The LORD loved the child.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He sent word through Nathan the prophet, and Nathan named him Jedidiah, meaning "beloved of the LORD," because the LORD favored him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab waged war against Rabbah, a city of the Ammonites, and captured the royal stronghold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab sent messengers to David with this message: "I have waged war against Rabbah and have successfully captured the city's water supply."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, assemble the rest of the people, set up camp against the city, and capture it. Otherwise, I will take the city myself, and it will be named after me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David assembled all his troops and marched to Rabbah, where he engaged in battle against the city and successfully captured it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He removed the crown from their king’s head, which weighed a talent of gold and was adorned with precious stones. This crown was placed on David’s head. He also brought out a vast amount of plunder from the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He brought out the people who were in the city and subjected them to forced labor, making them work with saws, iron harrows, and iron axes. He also made them labor in the brick kilns. This is what he did to all the cities of the Ammonites. Then David and all his people returned to Jerusalem.</span></p>






</body></html>