<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\spfivr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9658aad3-3693-ba1b-6e9f-f27589c77251" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam's reign as king of Israel, Azariah, the son of Amaziah, became king of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned for fifty-two years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jecholiah, and she was from Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, following all the ways of his father Amaziah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the high places were not eliminated: the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense at these elevated sites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD struck the king with leprosy, and he remained a leper until the day he died. He lived in isolation in a separate house. Meanwhile, Jotham, the king’s son, was in charge of the palace and governed the people of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Azariah and all his accomplishments—are they not recorded in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Azariah died and was buried with his ancestors in the City of David. His son Jotham then became king in his place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah's reign as king of Judah, Zachariah, the son of Jeroboam, became king over Israel in Samaria and ruled for six months.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed actions that were evil in the sight of the LORD, just as his ancestors had done. He did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shallum, the son of Jabesh, plotted against him, attacked him in front of the people, killed him, and then took his place as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Zachariah’s reign are indeed recorded in the historical records of the kings of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message the LORD spoke to Jehu: "Your descendants will sit on the throne of Israel until the fourth generation." And it happened just as the LORD had said.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shallum, the son of Jabesh, became king in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah's reign over Judah. He ruled in Samaria for one complete month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Menahem, the son of Gadi, left Tirzah and went to Samaria. There, he attacked Shallum, the son of Jabesh, in Samaria, killed him, and took his place as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Shallum’s reign, including the details of his conspiracy and how he carried it out, are recorded in the historical records of the kings of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Menahem attacked Tiphsah and all who were in it, along with its surrounding territories, starting from Tirzah. Because the city refused to open its gates to him, he launched an assault and conquered it. He also inflicted great cruelty, cutting open all the pregnant women within the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah's reign as king of Judah, Menahem, the son of Gadi, became king over Israel and ruled for ten years in Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed what was evil in the sight of the LORD and did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which caused Israel to sin, throughout all his days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pul, the king of Assyria, invaded the land, and Menahem gave him a thousand talents of silver to secure his support and strengthen his own hold on the kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Menahem imposed a tax on Israel, requiring every wealthy and powerful man to pay fifty shekels of silver. This money was collected to give to the king of Assyria. As a result, the king of Assyria withdrew his forces and did not remain in the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Menahem and everything he accomplished—are they not recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Menahem died and was buried with his ancestors; then his son Pekahiah succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fiftieth year of Azariah's reign as king of Judah, Pekahiah, the son of Menahem, became king over Israel in Samaria. He ruled for two years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed what was evil in the sight of the LORD and did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Pekah, the son of Remaliah, who was one of his officers, plotted against him. Pekah attacked him in Samaria, within the palace of the king’s house, along with Argob and Arieh and fifty men from the Gileadites. He killed him and took the throne in his place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Pekahiah’s reign, along with all his accomplishments, are indeed recorded in the historical records of the kings of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fifty-second year of Azariah's reign as king of Judah, Pekah, the son of Remaliah, became king over Israel in Samaria. He ruled for twenty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed what was evil in the sight of the LORD and did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who led Israel into sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the reign of Pekah, king of Israel, Tiglath-pileser, king of Assyria, invaded and captured Ijon, Abel-beth-maachah, Janoah, Kedesh, Hazor, Gilead, and Galilee—the entire region of Naphtali. He then took the inhabitants captive and deported them to Assyria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hoshea, the son of Elah, plotted against Pekah, the son of Remaliah, attacked him, and killed him. He then took the throne in his place during the twentieth year of the reign of Jotham, the son of Uzziah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Pekah’s reign and all his accomplishments are indeed recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the second year of Pekah, the son of Remaliah, who was king of Israel, Jotham, the son of Uzziah, began his reign as king of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he ruled for sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He acted in a way that was right in the eyes of the LORD, following all that his father Uzziah had done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the high places were not eliminated; the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense there. He also constructed the upper gate of the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Jotham, along with everything he accomplished, are they not recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Judah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that time, the LORD began to bring Rezin, the king of Syria, and Pekah, the son of Remaliah, against Judah as adversaries.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jotham died and was buried with his ancestors in the City of David, his forefather. His son Ahaz succeeded him as king.</span></p>






</body></html>