<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 26</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\spg5go.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b01a9201-14a7-c5f6-96a5-6d9214e6600a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 26</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eleventh year, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, because Tyre has said concerning Jerusalem, ‘Aha! The gateway of the nations is broken; it has turned to me. Now that she lies in ruins, I will prosper.’"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: "Listen, I am against you, O Tyre, and I will bring many nations against you, just as the sea sends its waves crashing forward."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will demolish the walls of Tyre and tear down her towers. I will scrape away all her debris and leave her as bare as the surface of a rock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This place will become an area for spreading fishing nets in the middle of the sea, for I, the Lord GOD, have declared it. It will be plundered by the nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And her daughters who are in the open fields will be killed by the sword; and they will come to understand that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the Lord GOD says: Look, I am about to bring against Tyre Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, the supreme ruler, from the north. He will come with horses, chariots, cavalry, a vast army, and a great multitude of troops.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will kill your daughters in the open fields with the sword. He will build siege works against you, raise a ramp to attack you, and set up shields to oppose you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will bring siege engines against your walls, and with his battering rams he will demolish your towers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the vast number of his horses, their dust will overwhelm you. Your walls will tremble at the sound of the horsemen, the rumbling of the wheels, and the roar of the chariots as he enters your gates, just as invaders storm a city whose defenses have been broken through.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">With the hooves of his horses, he will trample all your streets; he will kill your people by the sword, and your mighty fortresses will be brought down to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will plunder your wealth and seize your goods. They will tear down your walls and demolish your beautiful houses. They will cast your stones, your timber, and your rubble into the midst of the waters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring an end to the sound of your songs, and the music of your harps will no longer be heard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will make you like the bare summit of a rock; you will become a place for spreading out nets. You will never be rebuilt, for I, the LORD, have declared it. This is the word of the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says to Tyre: Will not the coastlands tremble at the sound of your collapse, when the wounded cry out, when the slaughter takes place within you?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the rulers of the sea will step down from their thrones, remove their royal robes, and strip off their embroidered garments. They will clothe themselves with trembling, sit on the ground, and shake with fear at every moment. They will be utterly astounded because of you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will mourn for you and say, "How you have been destroyed, you who were once inhabited by seafarers, the famous city that was mighty on the sea! You and your people, who spread fear among all who lived around you—how you have come to ruin!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now the coastlands will tremble on the day of your downfall; indeed, the islands in the sea will be dismayed at your collapse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the Lord GOD says: When I turn you into a desolate city, like the cities that lie abandoned and uninhabited; when I cause the deep waters to rise against you, and vast floods to overwhelm you;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I bring you down to join those who descend to the grave, to the people of ancient times, and place you in the depths of the earth, in the long-desolate places, among those who go down to the pit, so that you will no longer be inhabited, I will establish glory in the land of the living.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will make you an object of terror, and you will cease to exist. Even if people search for you, you will never be found again, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>






</body></html>