<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 65</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\spmkom.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e18baaca-e941-d57f-8991-0a8104b382f7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 65</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I reveal myself to those who did not seek me; I make myself known to those who did not ask for me. I say, "Here I am, here I am," to a nation that was not called by my name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have continually reached out my hands all day long to a defiant people, who walk in a path that is not good, following their own selfish desires.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A people who continually provoke me to anger right before my very eyes; they offer sacrifices in gardens and burn incense on altars made of brick.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They are the ones who dwell among the tombs and spend the night in secret places; they eat the flesh of pigs, and their pots contain broth made from unclean things.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You who say, "Keep your distance; don’t come near me, for I am holier than you"—these people are like smoke in my nostrils, a fire that burns continually.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, it is recorded before me: I will not remain silent, but I will repay—yes, I will repay them fully for what they have done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your sins, and the sins of your ancestors together, declares the LORD, who have burned incense on the mountains and dishonored me on the hills—therefore, I will bring the consequences of their past actions upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Just as new wine is found in the grape cluster, and someone says, "Do not destroy it, for there is a blessing in it," so I will act for the sake of my servants, to ensure that I do not destroy them all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring forth descendants from Jacob, and from Judah an heir to possess my mountains. My chosen ones will inherit it, and my servants will settle there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the plain of Sharon will become a pasture for flocks, and the Valley of Achor will be a resting place for herds, for my people who have sought me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you are the ones who have abandoned the LORD, who have forgotten my sacred mountain, who set a table for Fortune and fill cups with offerings for Destiny.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will consign you to the sword, and all of you will fall in slaughter. For when I called, you did not answer; when I spoke, you did not listen. Instead, you did what was evil in my sight and chose what displeases me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: "Listen carefully, my servants will have plenty to eat, but you will go hungry. My servants will have plenty to drink, but you will be parched with thirst. My servants will celebrate with joy, but you will be filled with shame."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: My servants will sing with joyful hearts, but you will cry out in anguish and wail in deep distress of spirit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will leave your name as a curse for my chosen ones, for the Lord GOD will destroy you, but he will give his servants a new name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who invokes a blessing on the earth will do so by the God of truth, and anyone who makes an oath on the earth will swear by the God of truth. This is because the past troubles are forgotten and have been removed from my sight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for I am about to create new heavens and a new earth. The past will no longer be remembered, nor will it even come to mind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you should be glad and rejoice forever in what I am creating; for look, I am making Jerusalem a source of great joy, and her people a cause for celebration.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will take delight in Jerusalem and find joy in my people. The sound of weeping and the cry of distress will no longer be heard in her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No longer will there be an infant who lives only a few days, nor an elderly person who fails to live out their full lifespan. For a child will live to be a hundred years old, yet anyone who is a sinner, even at a hundred years old, will be considered cursed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will construct houses and live in them; they will plant vineyards and enjoy their fruit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will not build houses only for others to live in them; they will not plant vineyards only for others to enjoy the fruit. For the lifespan of my people will be like that of a tree, and my chosen ones will fully enjoy the work of their hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will not work without purpose, nor will they raise children only to face calamity; for they are the descendants blessed by the LORD, and their children will share in that blessing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: Before they even call out to me, I will respond; while they are still speaking, I will hear them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wolf and the lamb will graze together, and the lion will eat straw like the ox. The serpent will feed on dust. They will neither harm nor destroy anywhere on my holy mountain, says the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>