<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Haggai Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\spmoa5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ba3514eb-611a-2dae-afdb-5b0964775ba0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Haggai Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the twenty-first day of the seventh month, the word of the LORD came through the prophet Haggai, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and speak to Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, who is the governor of Judah, and to Joshua, the son of Josedech, the high priest, and to all the rest of the people, and say to them:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who among you remains who saw this temple in its former splendor? How does it appear to you now? Does it not seem like nothing in comparison to what it once was?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord says this: "Now, be strong, Zerubbabel. Be strong, Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest. And be strong, all you people of the land, declares the Lord, and get to work. For I am with you, says the Lord of Hosts."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">According to the promise I made with you when you came out of Egypt, my Spirit remains among you. Do not be afraid.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD of hosts declares: "In just a little while longer, I will shake the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the dry land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause all nations to tremble, and the one desired by all nations will come. Then I will fill this house with glory, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The silver belongs to me, and the gold is mine, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The splendor of this future temple will surpass that of the former one, declares the LORD of hosts. And in this place, I will grant peace, says the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of King Darius, the word of the LORD came through the prophet Haggai, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts says: "Go and inquire of the priests about the law, asking them this:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone carries consecrated meat in the fold of their garment and that fold touches bread, stew, wine, oil, or any other food, does that food become holy?" The priests answered, "No."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Haggai asked, "If someone who is ritually unclean because of contact with a dead body touches any of these things, will they become unclean?" The priests responded, "Yes, they will become unclean."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Haggai responded and said, "This is how this people and this nation are before me, declares the LORD. The same applies to everything they do and to what they offer—it is unclean."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, I urge you to reflect on this time, from this day onward, recalling the period before even a single stone was placed upon another in the temple of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those days, when someone brought a heap of grain expecting twenty measures, there would only be ten. And when someone went to the winepress to draw out fifty vessels of wine, only twenty would be produced.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I struck your crops with scorching heat, mildew, and hail, ruining all the work of your hands; yet you did not return to me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Reflect carefully from this day forward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, even from the day when the foundation of the Lord’s temple was laid—give it your full attention.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is there still seed left in the barn? Even now, the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree have not yet produced their fruit. But from this day forward, I will bless you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the word of the LORD came to Haggai on the twenty-fourth day of the month, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell Zerubbabel, the governor of Judah, that I will cause the heavens and the earth to tremble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring down the thrones of kingdoms and shatter the power of the nations. I will overthrow their chariots and those who ride in them. The horses and their riders will fall, each one by the sword of his fellow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, declares the LORD of hosts, I will take you, Zerubbabel, my servant, son of Shealtiel, says the LORD, and I will make you like a signet ring, for I have chosen you, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>






</body></html>