<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Hosea Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\spo0s0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0f189458-d4fc-83a7-60d2-f9bbf95ffb3b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Hosea Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not rejoice, O Israel, with unrestrained joy like other nations, for you have turned away from your God in unfaithfulness. You have sought payment for your loyalty on every threshing floor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The threshing floor and the winepress will no longer provide for them, and the new wine will run dry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will not remain in the land of the LORD; instead, Ephraim will return to Egypt, and in Assyria they will consume what is ritually unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They must not present wine offerings to the LORD, nor will their sacrifices be acceptable to Him. Their offerings will be like the food of mourners—all who eat it will be defiled. For their bread, meant to sustain their lives, will not be brought into the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What will you do on the day of solemn assembly, and on the day of the LORD's appointed festival?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Behold, they are fleeing from destruction; Egypt will gather them up, and Memphis will bury them. Their precious possessions of silver will be overrun by nettles, and thorns will take over their dwellings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The time of judgment has arrived, the day of reckoning is here; Israel will come to understand this. The prophet is seen as a fool, the spiritual man as insane, because of the overwhelming extent of your sin and the intense hostility you have shown.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The watchman of Ephraim was aligned with my God, but the prophet has become like a hunter’s snare in all his paths, and there is hostility in the house of his God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have become profoundly corrupt, just as they were in the days of Gibeah. Therefore, He will call to mind their wrongdoing and hold them accountable for their sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I discovered Israel like a cluster of grapes in the wilderness; I saw your ancestors as the first ripe figs on a fig tree in its early season. But they turned to Baal-peor, dedicating themselves to that shameful idol, and their detestable acts matched the depth of their devotion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning Ephraim, their honor will vanish like a bird—gone from the moment of birth, from the womb, and even from conception.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Though they raise their children, I will take them away, leaving no one remaining. Indeed, how terrible it will be for them when I turn away from them!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ephraim, like Tyre, is established in a beautiful and favorable place. Yet, Ephraim will be forced to send his children out to face the slaughter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Grant them, O LORD—what will You give? Grant them a womb that cannot bear and breasts that are dry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All their evil deeds are centered in Gilgal, for there I came to despise them. Because of the wickedness of their actions, I will drive them out of my house; I will no longer show them love. All their leaders are rebels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ephraim is struck down, their foundation is withered, and they will produce no fruit. Even if they manage to bear offspring, I will destroy the cherished children of their womb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My God will reject them because they did not listen to Him, and they will become wanderers among the nations.</span></p>






</body></html>