<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\spo7ti.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:83bd36ea-0f4d-aa6b-37db-aca3d0de66d3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire community of the Israelites gathered together at Shiloh and established the tent of meeting there. The land had been brought under their control.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And among the people of Israel, there were still seven tribes that had not yet been allotted their portion of land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua said to the Israelites, "How long will you delay in taking possession of the land that the LORD, the God of your ancestors, has given to you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Select from among you three men from each tribe, and I will send them out. They will go and survey the land, mapping it according to the inheritance each tribe is to receive. Afterward, they will return to me with their report.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will divide the land into seven portions. Judah will remain within its territory to the south, and the house of Joseph will remain within its territory to the north.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to divide the land into seven portions and prepare a detailed description of each. Bring these descriptions to me, so that I may cast lots for you here in the presence of the LORD our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Levites will not have a portion of land among you, because their inheritance is the priesthood of the LORD. As for Gad, Reuben, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, they have already received their inheritance on the eastern side of the Jordan, which Moses, the servant of the LORD, granted to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men got up and departed, and Joshua instructed those who were going to survey the land, saying, "Go and travel through the land, map it out, and then return to me. I will then cast lots for you here before the LORD in Shiloh."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men went out and traveled through the land, surveying it and dividing it into seven portions according to its cities. They recorded their findings in a written report and then returned to Joshua at the camp in Shiloh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh in the presence of the LORD, and there he apportioned the land to the Israelites according to their tribal divisions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The portion assigned to the tribe of Benjamin was determined by their families. The boundary of their allotted territory lay between the lands of the descendants of Judah and the descendants of Joseph.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The northern boundary of their territory began at the Jordan River. From there, it extended to the northern side of Jericho, then ascended westward through the hill country, and its endpoint was the wilderness of Beth-aven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boundary then extended from there toward Luz, to the side of Luz (which is Bethel), heading southward. From there, the boundary descended to Ataroth-addar, near the hill that lies on the southern side of Lower Beth-horon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boundary extended from there and curved around the southern edge of the sea, starting from the hill that faces Beth-horon to the south. Its endpoint was at Kirjath-baal, also known as Kirjath-jearim, a city belonging to the tribe of Judah. This marked the western border.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The southern boundary began at the edge of Kiriath-jearim and extended westward to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boundary extended to the edge of the mountain that faces the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, located in the Valley of the Rephaim to the north. It then descended into the Valley of Hinnom, reaching the southern side of the Jebusite city, and continued downward to En-rogel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boundary extended from the north and proceeded to En-shemesh, then continued toward Geliloth, which lies opposite the ascent of Adummim. From there, it descended to the Stone of Bohan, the son of Reuben.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they continued along the boundary, turning toward the side opposite the Arabah to the north, and descended toward the Arabah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boundary continued along the side of Beth-hoglah to the north, and the endpoint of the boundary was at the northern inlet of the Salt Sea, at the southern extremity of the Jordan. This marked the southern border.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Jordan River formed its eastern boundary. This was the inheritance allotted to the descendants of Benjamin, defined by its surrounding borders, according to their clans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cities belonging to the tribe of Benjamin, divided according to their clans, included Jericho, Beth-hoglah, and the valley of Keziz.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Beth-arabah, Zemaraim, and Bethel,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Avim, and Parah, and Ophrah,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Chephar-haammonai, Ophni, and Gaba—twelve cities along with their surrounding villages.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gibeon, Ramah, and Beeroth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Mizpah, and Chephirah, and Mozah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Rekem, Irpeel, and Taralah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Zelah, Eleph, and Jebus (that is, Jerusalem), Gibeah, and Kiriath—fourteen cities, along with their surrounding villages. This was the inheritance given to the descendants of Benjamin, distributed according to their clans.</span></p>






</body></html>