<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>James Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\spqz0j.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9c11a69e-f62e-b34d-c3c9-d1a68dc6dc61" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">James Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen now, you who are wealthy, weep and cry out in anguish over the calamities that are about to overtake you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your wealth has decayed, and your clothes have been eaten by moths.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your gold and silver have corroded, and their rust will testify against you, consuming your flesh like fire. You have stored up wealth for the final days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen! The wages you have withheld from the workers who harvested your fields are crying out against you. The cries of those who reaped have reached the ears of the Lord of Hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have indulged in luxury and self-gratification on earth, living in reckless excess. You have fattened your hearts as if preparing for a day of feasting and celebration.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have condemned and put to death the innocent one, and he does not oppose you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, brothers and sisters, be patient as you wait for the coming of the Lord. Consider the farmer: he waits with great anticipation for the valuable harvest from the earth, enduring with patience until the land receives the early and late rains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must also remain patient; strengthen your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is near.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not harbor resentment or hold grudges against one another, my brothers and sisters, or you will face judgment. Take note: the Judge is already standing at the door.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My brothers and sisters, consider the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord as examples of enduring hardship and demonstrating patience.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Consider this: we regard those who endure as blessed. You have heard of Job’s perseverance and have witnessed the outcome the Lord brought about—how the Lord is deeply compassionate and full of tender mercy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Above all, my brothers and sisters, do not swear oaths—not by heaven, nor by the earth, nor by any other pledge. Instead, let your "yes" mean yes, and your "no" mean no, so that you do not fall under judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone among you is suffering, they should pray. If anyone is joyful, they should sing praises.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is anyone among you sick? Let them call for the elders of the church, and have them pray over the person, anointing them with oil in the name of the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prayer offered in faith will bring healing to the sick, and the Lord will restore them to health. Moreover, if they have committed sins, those sins will be forgiven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Admit your wrongdoings to each other, and pray for one another, so that you may be restored to health. The heartfelt, earnest prayer of a person who lives rightly before God is powerful and effective.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elijah was a man with the same human weaknesses as we have, and he prayed fervently that it would not rain. As a result, no rain fell on the land for three and a half years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He prayed once more, and the skies poured down rain, causing the earth to produce its harvest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Brothers and sisters, if any of you strays from the truth and someone helps them return to it,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let it be understood that whoever turns a sinner away from the error of their ways will rescue a soul from death and cover over a great number of sins.</span></p>






</body></html>