<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 40</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\spujfr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4b3a27d8-6ff0-dd65-89b1-8542a96ec24d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 40</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twenty-fifth year of our exile, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month—fourteen years after the city had been captured—on that very day, the power of the LORD came upon me and brought me there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the visions given by God, He brought me into the land of Israel and placed me on a very high mountain. From there, I saw what appeared to be the outline of a city to the south.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He led me there, and I saw a man whose appearance was like gleaming bronze. In his hand was a linen cord and a measuring rod, and he stood at the gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man said to me, "Son of man, look carefully with your eyes, listen intently with your ears, and focus your heart on everything I am about to show you. For this very purpose—to reveal these things to you—you have been brought here. Declare all that you see to the house of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw a wall surrounding the outside of the temple on all sides. In the man’s hand was a measuring rod, six cubits long (each cubit being a standard cubit plus a handbreadth). He measured the thickness of the wall, and it was one rod; and the height of the wall was also one rod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he came to the gate that faces toward the east, climbed its steps, and measured the width of the gate's threshold, which was one reed wide. The other threshold of the gate was also one reed wide.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each small room was six cubits long and six cubits wide. The space between the small rooms was five cubits, and the threshold of the gate by the inner vestibule of the gate was six cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also measured the inner vestibule of the gate, and it was one rod in length.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he measured the entrance room of the gateway, which was eight cubits long, and its supporting pillars, which were two cubits thick. The entrance room of the gateway faced inward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The small rooms of the gate facing east were three on one side and three on the other; all three on each side were of the same size. The gateposts on both sides also had the same measurements.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He measured the width of the gateway entrance, which was ten cubits, and the length of the gateway itself, which was thirteen cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The area in front of the small chambers measured one cubit in width on this side and one cubit on that side. The small chambers themselves were six cubits in width on this side and six cubits on that side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He measured the gate from the roof of one small room to the roof of another; the width was twenty-five cubits, with the doorways directly opposite each other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also constructed pillars that were sixty cubits high, extending to the pillar of the courtyard surrounding the gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the front of the entrance gate to the front of the porch of the inner gate was a distance of fifty cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The small chambers and their doorposts within the gate area all around had narrow windows. Similarly, the arches also had windows that faced inward, surrounding the interior. On each doorpost were carvings of palm trees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he led me into the outer court, and behold, there were chambers and a paved area surrounding the court. There were thirty chambers along the pavement.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The pavement beside the gates, corresponding to the length of the gates, was the lower pavement.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he measured the distance from the front of the lower gate to the front of the outer courtyard on the outside, one hundred cubits to the east and to the north.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he measured the length and the width of the gate of the outer courtyard that faced toward the north.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The small rooms of the gate were three on one side and three on the other. Its doorposts and its archways matched the dimensions of the first gate: its length was fifty cubits, and its width was twenty-five cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The windows, gateways, and palm tree decorations were of the same design and measurements as those of the gate facing east. They ascended to it by seven steps, and its gateways were positioned in front of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entrance to the inner courtyard was directly opposite the gate facing north and the gate facing east. He measured the distance from one gate to the other, and it was one hundred cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, he led me toward the south, and there I saw a gate facing the south. He measured its doorposts and its arches, and they matched the same dimensions as the others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The structure had windows, and its surrounding arches also contained windows similar in design. The length of the structure was fifty cubits, and its width was twenty-five cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were seven steps leading up to it, and its gateways faced forward. It had palm tree decorations, one on each side, carved into its doorposts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a gate in the inner courtyard facing the south, and he measured the distance from this gate to the opposite gate on the south side, which was one hundred cubits.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He led me to the inner courtyard through the south gate, and he measured the south gate according to these dimensions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The side rooms, the doorposts, and the recessed areas were all measured according to these specifications. There were windows throughout the structure and in its recessed areas, surrounding it on all sides. The entire structure was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits wide.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The surrounding porches were twenty-five cubits in length and five cubits in width.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The gate's arches faced the outer courtyard, and palm trees were carved on its doorposts. The ascent to it consisted of eight steps.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He led me into the inner court facing the east, and he measured the gate using the same measurements as before.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The side rooms, the doorposts, and the recessed areas were all built according to these measurements. There were windows throughout the structure and in the recessed areas all around. The entire building was fifty cubits long and twenty-five cubits wide.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The gate's arches faced the outer courtyard, and palm tree designs were carved on its doorposts, both on this side and on that side. The entrance to it was reached by ascending eight steps.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he led me to the north gate and measured it according to the same dimensions as the others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The small side rooms, the doorposts, the arched gateways, and the windows all around it—the structure measured fifty cubits in length and twenty-five cubits in width.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The doorposts of the gate faced the outer courtyard, and palm tree designs were carved on each side of the posts. The entrance to the gate was reached by climbing eight steps.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The side rooms and their entrances were located next to the gateposts, where they would wash the burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the gateway's entrance hall, there were two tables on one side and two tables on the other side. These tables were used for slaughtering the burnt offerings, sin offerings, and guilt offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the outer side, as one approaches the entrance of the north gate, there were two tables; and on the opposite side, near the porch of the gate, there were also two tables.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On one side of the gate, there were four tables, and on the other side, there were also four tables—eight tables in total. These were the tables on which they slaughtered the animals for sacrifice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The four tables were made of cut stone, intended for the burnt offering. Each table was one and a half cubits long, one and a half cubits wide, and one cubit high. On these tables, they placed the tools used for slaughtering the burnt offerings and the sacrifices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Inside the structure were hooks, each a handbreadth in width, securely attached all around. On the tables lay the meat of the offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Inside the inner gate were the rooms for the singers, located in the inner courtyard, positioned beside the north gate. These rooms faced south. Another room was situated beside the east gate, facing north.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to me, "This room, which faces south, is for the priests who are responsible for the duties of the temple."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The room facing north is designated for the priests who are responsible for the duties of the altar. These are the descendants of Zadok, from among the Levites, who are permitted to approach the LORD to serve Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He measured the courtyard, which was one hundred cubits long and one hundred cubits wide, forming a perfect square. The altar stood in front of the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He led me to the entrance of the temple and measured each of the doorposts of the entrance: five cubits on one side and five cubits on the other. The width of the gateway was three cubits on one side and three cubits on the other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The porch measured twenty cubits in length and eleven cubits in width. He led me up the steps that provided access to it, and there were pillars beside the gateposts, one on each side.</span></p>






</body></html>