<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 66</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\spvezz.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ffabbaa8-5e95-e815-9232-7d88521feb64" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 66</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house could you possibly build for me? Where could you find a place for me to rest?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"My hand has made all these things, and all these things exist," declares the LORD. "But I will look with favor on this one: the one who is humble and contrite in spirit, and who trembles at my word."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who kills an ox is like one who murders a person; the one who sacrifices a lamb is like one who kills a dog; the one who presents a grain offering is like one who offers the blood of a pig; the one who burns incense is like one who worships an idol. Indeed, they have chosen their own ways, and their hearts take pleasure in their detestable practices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also choose to bring upon them their own delusions and cause their fears to overwhelm them, because when I called to them, no one answered; when I spoke, they did not listen. Instead, they did what was evil in my sight and chose what displeased me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to the word of the LORD, you who revere His word with awe. Your own brothers and sisters, who hated you and rejected you because of your loyalty to My name, said, "May the LORD be glorified!" But He will reveal Himself to bring you joy, and they will be put to shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A sound of tumult rises from the city, a voice echoes from the temple—it is the voice of the LORD, bringing retribution upon His enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before she went into labor, she gave birth; before her pain began, she delivered a male child.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who has ever heard of such a thing? Who has ever seen anything like this? Can a land be brought to birth in a single day? Can a nation be born all at once? Yet no sooner did Zion go into labor than she delivered her children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD says: "Would I bring someone to the point of giving birth and then not allow the child to be born? Would I, your God, cause the birth process to begin and then close the womb?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Celebrate with Jerusalem and share in her joy, all you who love her. Rejoice greatly with her, all you who grieve over her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that you may drink deeply and be fully satisfied from the comforting nourishment she provides; that you may draw out and delight in the overflowing richness of her glorious abundance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says: "Look, I will bring peace to her like a river, and the wealth of the nations like an overflowing stream. Then you will nurse and be carried on her side, and gently rocked upon her knees."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as a mother comforts her child, so I will comfort you; and you will find comfort in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you witness this, your heart will be filled with joy, and your strength will be renewed like fresh, flourishing grass. The power of the LORD will be clearly seen in how He cares for His servants, while His wrath will be evident against His enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, for the Lord will come with consuming fire, accompanied by His chariots like a whirlwind, to execute His wrath with fierce anger and His judgment with blazing flames.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD will execute judgment upon all humanity with fire and with His sword, and those struck down by the LORD will be numerous.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who set themselves apart as holy and purify themselves by going into the gardens, following after one particular tree in their midst, who eat the flesh of pigs, detestable things, and even mice—they will all be destroyed together, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I am fully aware of their actions and their intentions. The time is coming when I will assemble all nations and peoples of every language. They will come and witness my glory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will establish a sign among them, and I will send those who survive to the nations—to Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, who are skilled with the bow, to Tubal and Javan, and to the distant coastlands that have not heard of my renown or seen my glory. They will proclaim my glory among the nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will bring all your fellow Israelites as an offering to the LORD from every nation—on horses, in chariots, in litters, on mules, and on swift animals—to my holy mountain, Jerusalem, declares the LORD, just as the people of Israel bring their offerings in clean vessels to the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares, "I will also choose some of them to serve as priests and Levites."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For just as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will create, will endure before me, declares the LORD, so will your descendants and your name endure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: From one new moon to the next, and from one Sabbath to another, all people will come to bow down in worship before me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will go out and look upon the dead bodies of those who have rebelled against me. For their worm will not die, and their fire will not be extinguished; they will be a horrifying sight to all humanity.</span></p>






</body></html>