<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\spvgr4.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4a3da574-9af2-8e7f-9f53-37ed2b7669c4" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD called to Moses and spoke to him from the tent of meeting, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and tell them: When any of you brings an offering to the LORD, you shall present your offering from the livestock—either from the herd or from the flock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone presents a burnt offering from the herd, they must bring a male animal without any defect. They are to offer it willingly at the entrance to the tent of meeting in the presence of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person shall place his hand on the head of the burnt offering, and it will be accepted on his behalf to make atonement for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man shall slaughter the bull before the LORD, and the priests, Aaron’s sons, shall collect the blood and sprinkle it all around on the altar that stands at the entrance to the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall skin the burnt offering and divide it into its parts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sons of Aaron, the priest, shall place fire on the altar and arrange the wood in an orderly manner upon the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests, who are Aaron's descendants, shall arrange the pieces—the head and the fat—in their proper order on the wood that is burning on the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall wash the internal organs and the legs of the animal with water. Then he shall burn all of it on the altar as a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, producing a pleasing aroma to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone presents an offering from the flock—whether sheep or goats—as a burnt offering, they must bring a male animal that is without any defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The animal shall be slaughtered on the north side of the altar in the presence of the LORD. Then the priests, the sons of Aaron, shall splash its blood against all sides of the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The animal shall be divided into its parts, including its head and its fat. The priest shall then arrange these pieces in order on the wood that is burning on the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, he must wash the inner parts and the legs with water. Then the priest is to present all of it and burn it on the altar. It is a burnt offering, a food offering presented by fire, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone presents a burnt offering to the LORD from birds, they must bring their offering of either turtledoves or young pigeons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall bring it to the altar, twist off its head, and burn it on the altar. Then he shall drain its blood against the side of the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall remove the crop along with its feathers and throw it beside the altar on the eastern side, near the place where the ashes are deposited.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall split it open along its wings, but not completely separate it into parts. Then the priest shall place it on the altar, on the wood that is over the fire. It is a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>