<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 38</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\spyx58.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d1e2031b-1d4f-7d14-610e-743e1ca0a41b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 38</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Shephatiah, the son of Mattan; Gedaliah, the son of Pashur; Jucal, the son of Shelemiah; and Pashur, the son of Malchiah, heard the words that Jeremiah had spoken to all the people. He had said:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "Whoever stays in this city will die by the sword, by famine, or by plague. But whoever goes out and surrenders to the Chaldeans will live; they will escape with their life as a prize and survive."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: This city will certainly be handed over to the army of the king of Babylon, and they will capture it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the officials said to the king, "We urge you to have this man put to death, because he is discouraging the soldiers who remain in this city, as well as all the people, by speaking such words to them. This man is not seeking the well-being of the people but rather their harm."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Zedekiah said, "Look, he is in your hands; for the king has no power to oppose you in this matter."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they seized Jeremiah and threw him into the cistern of Malchiah, the son of Hammelech, which was located in the courtyard of the guard. They lowered Jeremiah into the cistern with ropes. Inside the cistern, there was no water, only mud, and Jeremiah sank into the mud.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, a eunuch who served in the royal palace, heard that Jeremiah had been thrown into the cistern—while the king was sitting at the Benjamin Gate—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ebed-melech left the king's palace and spoke to the king, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My lord the king, these men have acted wickedly in everything they have done to Jeremiah the prophet. They have thrown him into the cistern, and he is likely to die from hunger in the place where he is, for there is no more bread left in the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king ordered Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, saying, "Take thirty men with you from here, and pull Jeremiah the prophet up from the cistern before he dies."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Ebed-melech took the men with him and entered the king’s palace, going to the room beneath the treasury. There he gathered some old, worn-out cloths and tattered rags. He then lowered them by ropes into the cistern to Jeremiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ebed-melech the Ethiopian said to Jeremiah, "Please place these worn-out cloths and tattered rags under your armpits, beneath the ropes." Jeremiah did as he was told.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they pulled Jeremiah up with ropes and brought him out of the dungeon. Jeremiah then remained in the courtyard of the prison.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Zedekiah sent for the prophet Jeremiah and had him brought to the third entrance of the house of the LORD. The king said to Jeremiah, "I want to ask you something; do not hide anything from me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, "If I tell you the truth, will you not surely put me to death? And if I offer you advice, will you not listen to me?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So King Zedekiah made a solemn oath to Jeremiah in secret, saying, "As surely as the LORD lives, the one who gave us this breath of life, I will not put you to death, nor will I hand you over to these men who are seeking to take your life."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, "This is what the LORD, the God of armies, the God of Israel, declares: If you willingly surrender to the officials of the king of Babylon, your life will be spared, this city will not be burned down, and you and your family will survive."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you refuse to go out and surrender to the officials of the king of Babylon, then this city will be handed over to the Chaldeans. They will set it on fire and burn it down, and you will not escape their grasp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, "I am afraid of the Jews who have defected to the Babylonians, fearing they might hand me over to them and subject me to their ridicule."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jeremiah replied, "They will not be able to save you. Please, I urge you, listen to the voice of the LORD, which I am speaking to you. If you do, things will go well for you, and your life will be spared."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you refuse to go out, this is the message the LORD has revealed to me:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: all the women who remain in the palace of the king of Judah will be taken out and brought before the officials of the king of Babylon. These women will say to you, "Your so-called friends have deceived you and overpowered you. Now your feet are stuck in the mud, and those you trusted have abandoned you and turned away."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, they will hand over all your wives and children to the Chaldeans, and you will not escape their grasp. Instead, you will be seized by the king of Babylon, and you will be the one responsible for this city being consumed by fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, "Do not let anyone know about these words, and you will not be put to death."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if the officials hear that I have spoken with you, and they come to you and say, “Tell us now what you said to the king; do not hide it from us, and we will not kill you. Also, tell us what the king said to you.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall say to them, "I brought my plea before the king, asking that he not send me back to Jonathan's house, where I would surely die."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the officials approached Jeremiah and questioned him. He answered them in full, just as the king had instructed. At that, they stopped speaking with him, for the matter had not been disclosed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jeremiah remained in the courtyard of the guard until the day Jerusalem was captured. He was still there when Jerusalem fell.</span></p>






</body></html>