<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 45</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sq0a9z.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a118b454-c416-d506-48b6-4290951ccfc5" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 45</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, when you divide the land by lot as an inheritance, you must set apart a sacred offering to the LORD—a holy portion of the land. Its length shall be twenty-five thousand cubits, and its width ten thousand cubits. This entire area shall be holy, with all its boundaries on every side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the sanctuary, there shall be a sacred area measuring five hundred cubits in length and five hundred cubits in width, forming a perfect square. Around this area, there shall be an open space of fifty cubits in width, designated as its surrounding grounds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall measure a length of twenty-five thousand units and a width of ten thousand units according to this standard. Within this area, the sanctuary and the Most Holy Place shall be located.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sacred portion of the land shall belong to the priests, who serve in the sanctuary and approach to minister before the LORD. This area will serve as a place for their homes and as a holy space for the sanctuary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites, who serve in the temple, will also have a portion for themselves: an area measuring twenty-five thousand cubits in length and ten thousand cubits in width. This land will be their possession, designated for their twenty chambers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall designate an area for the city's territory, measuring five thousand cubits in width and twenty-five thousand cubits in length, adjacent to the sacred portion set apart for the Lord. This land shall belong to the entire house of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A portion shall be designated for the prince on both sides of the sacred offering and the city’s territory, adjacent to the holy portion and the city’s land. This portion will extend westward from the western boundary and eastward from the eastern boundary, corresponding in length to one of the tribal allotments, stretching from the western border to the eastern border.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the land, he will have his allotted portion among the people of Israel, and my leaders will no longer oppress my people. The remaining land will be distributed to the house of Israel according to their tribes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: "Enough, you leaders of Israel! Put an end to violence and plunder. Carry out justice and righteousness. Stop oppressing my people," declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must use accurate scales, honest measures for dry goods, and honest measures for liquids.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ephah and the bath shall be of the same standard measure, so that the bath will hold a tenth of a homer, and the ephah will also hold a tenth of a homer. Their measurement shall be based on the homer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The standard weight of a shekel shall be twenty gerahs. A mina shall consist of twenty shekels, twenty-five shekels, and fifteen shekels, according to the prescribed measure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the offering you are to present: one-sixth of an ephah from a homer of wheat, and you shall also give one-sixth of an ephah from a homer of barley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding the regulation of oil, you shall present a tenth of a bath from each cor of oil. A cor is equivalent to a homer, which consists of ten baths; therefore, ten baths make up one homer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And from the flock, one lamb out of every two hundred, taken from the rich pastures of Israel, shall be offered as a grain offering, a burnt offering, and a peace offering, to make atonement for them, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the inhabitants of the land shall present this offering to the leader in Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It will be the responsibility of the prince to provide the burnt offerings, grain offerings, and drink offerings during the festivals, at the new moons, on the Sabbath days, and at all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel. He is to prepare the sin offering, the grain offering, the burnt offering, and the peace offerings, in order to make atonement for the house of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: On the first day of the first month, you are to take a young bull without any defect and purify the sanctuary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take some of the blood from the sin offering and apply it to the doorposts of the house, the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and the doorposts of the gate leading to the inner courtyard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day of the month, you shall perform this ritual for anyone who has gone astray or for the one who is inexperienced. In this way, you will make atonement for the house and restore it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you shall observe the Passover, a festival lasting seven days. During this time, you must eat unleavened bread.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the leader shall provide for himself and for all the people of the land a young bull as a sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For seven days during the feast, he is to prepare a burnt offering to the LORD: seven bulls and seven rams without defect, each day for the seven days. In addition, a male goat is to be offered daily as a sin offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall prepare a grain offering consisting of an ephah of flour for each bull, an ephah for each ram, and a hin of oil for each ephah of flour.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fifteenth day of the seventh month, he shall observe the same procedures during the seven-day festival, following the regulations for the sin offering, the burnt offering, the grain offering, and the oil offering.</span></p>






</body></html>