<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sq2zm1.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:17a18227-5538-f7a7-bf8a-4fdd852abe0b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all the kings of the Amorites who lived west of the Jordan and all the kings of the Canaanites who lived near the sea heard that the LORD had dried up the waters of the Jordan before the Israelites until they had crossed over, their courage failed them. They were utterly disheartened and lost all resolve because of the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the LORD said to Joshua, "Prepare sharp knives and circumcise the Israelites once more, a second time."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua prepared sharp flint knives and circumcised the Israelites at Gibeath-haaraloth, which means "Hill of Foreskins."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the reason Joshua performed circumcision: All the males who had come out of Egypt—every one of the fighting men—had died in the wilderness during the journey after leaving Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people who had come out of Egypt were circumcised, but those who were born during the journey in the wilderness, as they traveled from Egypt, had not been circumcised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites wandered in the wilderness for forty years, until all the men of fighting age who had come out of Egypt had died, because they did not obey the voice of the LORD. The LORD had sworn to them that He would not allow them to see the land He had promised to their ancestors to give to us—a land flowing with milk and honey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the children of Israel, whom God had raised up to take the place of their fathers, Joshua circumcised. They had remained uncircumcised because the act of circumcision had not been performed for them during their journey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had finished circumcising all the people, they remained in their places within the camp until they had fully healed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Joshua, "Today I have removed the disgrace of Egypt from you." Therefore, the name of that place is called Gilgal to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites set up camp at Gilgal and observed the Passover on the fourteenth day of the month, in the evening, on the plains of Jericho.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the day after the Passover, they ate from the produce of the land: unleavened bread and roasted grain, all on that same day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The manna stopped the day after they ate the produce of the land. From that time on, the Israelites no longer had manna, but instead they ate the crops of the land of Canaan that year.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now when Joshua was near Jericho, he looked up and saw a man standing before him with a drawn sword in his hand. Joshua approached him and asked, "Are you on our side, or are you with our enemies?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "No, but I have come as the commander of the LORD's army." Joshua immediately fell facedown to the ground in reverence and said to him, "What message does my lord have for his servant?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander of the LORD’s army said to Joshua, “Take off your sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy.” And Joshua did so.</span></p>






</body></html>