<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sq47rr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3e4d805c-f2c2-fd58-6f62-07ca76c14100" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, I saw four angels positioned at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth so that no wind would blow on the land, on the sea, or on any tree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw another angel rising from the east, carrying the seal of the living God. He called out in a loud voice to the four angels who had been given authority to harm the earth and the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He commanded, saying, "Do not harm the earth, the sea, or the trees until we have marked the servants of our God with a seal on their foreheads."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I heard the number of those who were sealed: one hundred and forty-four thousand from all the tribes of the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand were marked. From the tribe of Reuben, twelve thousand were marked. From the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand were marked.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Asher, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Naphtali, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand were sealed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand were marked. From the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand were marked. From the tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand were marked.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Zebulun, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Benjamin, twelve thousand were sealed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, I looked, and behold, there was a vast multitude that no one could count, from every nation, tribe, people, and language, standing before the throne and before the Lamb. They were dressed in white robes and held palm branches in their hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they shouted with a mighty voice, saying, "Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the angels stood encircling the throne, along with the elders and the four living creatures. They bowed down before the throne, their faces to the ground, and worshiped God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They declared, "Amen! May blessing, glory, wisdom, gratitude, honor, power, and strength belong to our God forever and ever. Amen."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then one of the elders responded, saying to me, "Who are these people dressed in white robes, and where did they come from?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I replied to him, "Sir, you know." He said to me, "These are the ones who have come through intense suffering. They have washed their robes and made them pure in the blood of the Lamb."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this reason, they stand before the throne of God and worship him day and night in his temple. The one who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will no longer experience hunger or thirst; the sun will not beat down on them, nor will any scorching heat affect them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the Lamb who stands at the center of the throne will shepherd them, guiding them to springs of living water. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.</span></p>






</body></html>