<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sq7759.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7bce9ef1-4cec-d6e8-124b-d3d1635793a0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Solomon gathered the elders of Israel, along with all the leaders of the tribes and the heads of the ancestral families of the Israelites, to come before King Solomon in Jerusalem. They were to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD from the city of David, which is Zion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the men of Israel gathered together before King Solomon during the festival in the month of Ethanim, which is the seventh month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the elders of Israel gathered, and the priests lifted up the ark.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They carried up the ark of the LORD, the tent of meeting, and all the sacred vessels that were in the tent. The priests and the Levites were the ones who brought them up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon, along with the entire assembly of Israel who had gathered with him, stood before the ark. Together, they offered sacrifices of sheep and oxen in such great numbers that they were beyond counting or measure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests carried the ark of the covenant of the LORD into its designated place, into the inner sanctuary of the temple, the Most Holy Place, beneath the wings of the cherubim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cherubim spread out their two wings over the place of the ark, covering the ark and its carrying poles from above.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They pulled out the carrying poles so that the ends of the poles were visible in the holy place in front of the inner sanctuary, but they could not be seen from outside. The poles remain there to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ark contained nothing except the two stone tablets that Moses placed there at Horeb, when the LORD established a covenant with the Israelites after they had come out of the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the priests came out of the holy place, the cloud filled the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests were unable to remain standing to perform their duties because of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD had completely filled the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Solomon declared, "The LORD has said that He would reside in the deep darkness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have indeed built for you a house as a dwelling place, a permanent and established home for you to reside in forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king turned around and blessed the entire assembly of Israel, while all the people of Israel stood in reverence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "May the LORD, the God of Israel, be praised, who spoke directly to my father David and has now fulfilled His promise with His own power, saying,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the time I brought my people Israel out of Egypt, I did not select any city from all the tribes of Israel to build a house where my name would dwell. Instead, I chose David to lead my people Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It was in the heart of my father David to build a house for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to David my father, "Because it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you did well that this desire was in your heart."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you will not be the one to build the temple; but your son, who will come from your own body, he is the one who will build the temple in honor of my name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has fulfilled the word that He spoke. I have succeeded my father David and now sit on the throne of Israel, just as the LORD promised. I have also built a house for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have prepared a place there for the ark, which contains the covenant of the LORD that He established with our ancestors when He brought them out of the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of the entire assembly of Israel, and he stretched out his hands toward the heavens.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "LORD, God of Israel, there is no god like you in heaven above or on earth below. You keep your covenant and show steadfast love to your servants who walk before you with all their heart."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have kept the promise you made to your servant David, my father. What you declared with your own mouth, you have accomplished with your own hand, as we see today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, LORD God of Israel, fulfill the promise you made to your servant David, my father, when you declared, "You will never fail to have a descendant in my presence to sit on the throne of Israel, provided your descendants are careful to live in obedience to me, walking before me as you have walked before me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, O God of Israel, may your word, I earnestly ask, be confirmed, which you spoke to your servant David, my father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But can God truly dwell on earth? Even the heavens and the highest heavens cannot contain you—how much less this temple that I have built?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet, O LORD my God, please give attention to the prayer of your servant and to his plea. Listen to the cry and the prayer that your servant is offering before you today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May your eyes be open day and night toward this house, the place of which you have said, "My name shall be there." May you listen to the prayer that your servant prays toward this place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to the plea of your servant and of your people Israel when they pray toward this place. Hear them from heaven, your dwelling place, and when you hear, forgive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone wrongs their neighbor and is required to take an oath to confirm their innocence, and that oath is brought before your altar in this temple:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then listen from heaven, act, and judge your servants, condemning the guilty by bringing the consequences of their actions upon their own heads, and vindicating the righteous by rewarding them according to their uprightness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When your people Israel are defeated by their enemies because they have sinned against you, and they return to you, acknowledge your name, and pray and plead with you in this temple:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, hear from heaven, forgive the sins of your people Israel, and restore them to the land you gave to their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the heavens are closed and no rain falls because they have sinned against you, and if they then pray toward this place, acknowledge your name, and turn away from their sin when you bring hardship upon them—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then listen from heaven, forgive the sins of your servants and your people Israel, and teach them the right way they should live. Also, send rain on your land, which you have given to your people as their inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If there is famine in the land, or if there is plague, crop blight, mildew, locusts, or caterpillars; or if their enemies besiege them in any of their cities—whatever disaster or sickness may come—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any individual or all of your people Israel offer a prayer or plea, each one recognizing the affliction of their own heart and lifting up their hands toward this temple,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then listen from heaven, your dwelling place, and forgive, act, and give to each person according to their ways, since you know their hearts—for you alone know the hearts of all people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that they may revere and honor you throughout all the days they live in the land you gave to our ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, regarding a foreigner who is not part of your people Israel, but who comes from a distant land because of your reputation—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they will hear of your great name, your mighty power, and your outstretched arm—when they come and pray toward this house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen from heaven, your dwelling place, and respond to all that the foreigner prays to you for, so that all the peoples of the earth may know your name and revere you, as your people Israel do, and may recognize that this house I have built bears your name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If your people go out to war against their enemy, wherever you send them, and they pray to the LORD, turning toward the city you have chosen and toward the house I have built for your name,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then listen from heaven to their prayer and plea, and uphold their case.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If they sin against you—for there is no one who does not sin—and you become angry with them, handing them over to their enemies so that they are taken captive to a land, whether distant or near,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if they come to their senses in the land where they have been taken as captives, and they repent and earnestly pray to you in the land of their captors, confessing, "We have sinned, we have acted corruptly, we have done evil,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so they will return to you with all their heart and with all their soul, even in the land of their enemies who have taken them captive. They will pray to you, turning toward the land you gave to their ancestors, the city you have chosen, and the house I have built for your name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then listen to their prayer and their plea from Your heavenly dwelling place, and uphold their case.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Please forgive your people who have sinned against you, and pardon all their wrongdoings and offenses committed against you. Grant them mercy in the sight of those who have taken them captive, so that their captors may show them compassion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they are your people, your own possession, whom you brought out of Egypt, from the midst of that iron furnace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May your eyes be open to the plea of your servant and to the plea of your people Israel, so that you may listen to them whenever they call out to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you have set them apart from all the peoples of the earth to be your own possession, as you declared through your servant Moses when you brought our ancestors out of Egypt, O Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Solomon finished offering all this prayer and earnest plea to the LORD, he stood up from his position before the altar of the LORD, where he had been kneeling with his hands lifted toward heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He stood before the entire assembly of Israel and, with a strong and clear voice, pronounced a blessing over them, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Praise the LORD, who has granted peace and rest to His people Israel, just as He promised. Not a single word of His good promise, which He made through His servant Moses, has failed to come to pass.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the LORD our God remain with us, just as He was with our ancestors. May He never abandon us or turn away from us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">58 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May he turn our hearts toward him, so that we may follow all his ways, obey his commandments, and uphold his statutes and decrees, just as he instructed our ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">59 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May these words of mine, with which I have pleaded before the LORD, remain close to the LORD our God day and night, so that He may uphold the cause of His servant and the cause of His people Israel at all times, as each situation demands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">60 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that all the people of the earth may recognize that the LORD alone is God, and there is no other besides Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">61 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let your heart be fully devoted to the LORD our God, to live according to His laws and to obey His commandments, as you are doing today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">62 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king, along with all of Israel, presented offerings before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">63 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon presented a peace offering to the LORD, sacrificing twenty-two thousand oxen and one hundred and twenty thousand sheep. In this way, the king and all the people of Israel consecrated the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">64 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that same day, the king consecrated the central area of the courtyard in front of the house of the LORD. There he presented burnt offerings, grain offerings, and the fat portions of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar that stood before the LORD was too small to accommodate all the burnt offerings, grain offerings, and fat portions of the peace offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">65 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, Solomon celebrated a festival, and all Israel joined him—a vast assembly from the entrance of Hamath to the River of Egypt—in the presence of the LORD our God. The celebration lasted seven days, followed by another seven days, making a total of fourteen days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">66 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eighth day, he dismissed the people. They blessed the king and returned to their homes with joy and gladness in their hearts because of all the good things the LORD had done for His servant David and for His people Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>