<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sq7q1l.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:727291da-d8e9-9cc9-773c-cee018fb6ccd" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He then called out to me with a loud voice, saying, "Summon those who are appointed to oversee the city, each man armed with his weapon of destruction in his hand."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I looked, and behold, six men came from the direction of the upper gate, which faces north, each carrying a deadly weapon in his hand. Among them was a man clothed in linen, with a scribe’s writing kit at his side. They entered and stood beside the bronze altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The radiant presence of the God of Israel ascended from the cherub, where it had rested, and moved to the threshold of the temple. Then He called out to the man dressed in linen, who carried a scribe’s inkhorn at his side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to him, "Go through the center of the city, through the heart of Jerusalem, and place a mark on the foreheads of those who grieve and lament over all the detestable acts being committed in its midst."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to the others, he said in my hearing, "Go through the city after him and strike. Do not let your eye show mercy, nor feel any pity."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Kill everyone completely—old and young, both young women and little children, and women. But do not go near anyone who has the mark on them. Begin the judgment at my sanctuary." So they started with the elders who were in front of the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "Desecrate the temple and fill its courtyards with the slain. Go out and carry this out." So they went out and struck down the people in the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the slaughter was taking place and I alone remained, I threw myself facedown and cried out, saying, "Oh, Lord GOD! Will you destroy all the remnant of Israel as you pour out your wrath upon Jerusalem?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "The sin of the house of Israel and Judah is exceedingly great. The land is filled with bloodshed, and the city is full of corruption. For they say, 'The LORD has abandoned the earth, and the LORD does not see what is happening.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for me, I will not show mercy or spare them. I will repay them according to their actions and hold them accountable for their deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, the man dressed in linen, who had the writing kit at his side, gave his report, saying, "I have done exactly as you commanded me."</span></p>






</body></html>