<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sq89qp.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:44c6a5a8-b97f-3302-60a2-9aec93aabf95" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After the death of Moses, the servant of the LORD, the LORD spoke to Joshua, the son of Nun, who had served as Moses' assistant, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses, my servant, has died. Now, therefore, rise up, cross over this Jordan, you and all these people, into the land that I am giving to them—to the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every place where the sole of your foot steps, I have given to you, just as I promised to Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the wilderness and this Lebanon, all the way to the great river, the Euphrates, including the entire land of the Hittites, and extending to the Mediterranean Sea in the west, will be your territory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one will be able to stand against you all the days of your life. Just as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not abandon you or leave you without support.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be strong and courageous, for you will lead this people to inherit the land that I swore to their ancestors I would give them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be strong and very courageous, so that you may carefully follow all the law that Moses, my servant, commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right or to the left, so that you may succeed wherever you go.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not let this book of the law leave your lips; instead, reflect on it continually, day and night, so that you may carefully follow everything written in it. For then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will achieve true success.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous; do not be afraid or discouraged, for the LORD your God is with you wherever you go.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joshua instructed the leaders of the people, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go through the camp and give this command to the people: ‘Prepare provisions for yourselves, because in three days you will cross the Jordan River to enter and take possession of the land that the LORD your God is giving you as your own.’</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua addressed the Reubenites, the Gadites, and half the tribe of Manasseh, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remember the command that Moses, the servant of the LORD, gave to you, saying, "The LORD your God has granted you rest and has given you this land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your wives, your children, and your livestock may stay in the land that Moses gave you on this side of the Jordan. However, you must cross over ahead of your fellow Israelites, fully armed as courageous warriors, and assist them in battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Until the LORD grants your fellow Israelites rest, just as He has given you, and they too take possession of the land that the LORD your God is giving them, then you may return to the land of your inheritance and settle in it—the land that Moses, the servant of the LORD, allotted to you east of the Jordan, toward the sunrise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people responded to Joshua, saying, "We will do everything you command us, and we will go wherever you send us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as we obeyed Moses in all things, so we will obey you. May the LORD your God be with you, as He was with Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who disobeys your command and refuses to listen to your words in everything you instruct them must be put to death. Therefore, be strong and very courageous.</span></p>






</body></html>