<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sq96ix.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:80434cb1-4a90-b371-5bab-a50d76b4e807" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 23</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A considerable time had passed after the LORD had granted Israel peace from all their surrounding enemies, and Joshua had grown old and advanced in years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua summoned all of Israel, including their elders, leaders, judges, and officials, and said to them, "I am now old and advanced in years."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have witnessed everything that the LORD your God has done to all these nations on your behalf, for the LORD your God is the one who has fought for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I have allotted to you by lot these remaining nations as an inheritance for your tribes, extending from the Jordan River to all the nations I have destroyed, reaching as far as the great sea in the west.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD your God will drive them out before you and remove them from your presence. You will take possession of their land, just as the LORD your God has promised you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, be exceedingly strong and resolute to observe and carry out everything written in the Book of the Law of Moses, so that you do not turn away from it, either to the right or to the left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not associate with these nations that remain among you. Do not speak the names of their gods, nor make anyone swear by them. Do not serve them or bow down to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But remain steadfastly devoted to the LORD your God, just as you have done up to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD has driven out before you great and powerful nations, yet to this day, no one has been able to withstand you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A single one of you will pursue a thousand, for the LORD your God is the one who fights for you, just as he has promised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, be very careful to watch over your own lives, so that you may truly love the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you turn away and cling to the survivors of these nations—those who remain among you—and if you intermarry with them, associating with them and they with you, then know this:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Understand this with absolute certainty: the LORD your God will no longer drive out any of these nations from before you. Instead, they will become traps and snares for you, sources of trouble and affliction, and constant irritations, like thorns in your eyes. This will continue until you perish from this good land that the LORD your God has given you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, today I am about to die, as all people must. You know deep within your hearts and souls that not a single promise the LORD your God made to you has failed. Every good thing He declared concerning you has come to pass—not one has been left unfulfilled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, it will happen that just as all the good things have come upon you, which the LORD your God promised you, so the LORD will bring upon you all the calamities, until He has completely destroyed you from this good land that the LORD your God has given you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you break the covenant of the LORD your God, which He commanded you to keep, and turn away to serve other gods, bowing down to them, then the anger of the LORD will burn against you, and you will swiftly perish from the good land He has given you.</span></p>






</body></html>