<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sq9a3b.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b89253bc-ea33-cb97-f72f-fdbb300a2e16" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not ignore your brother’s ox or sheep if you see them wandering away. Instead, you are obligated to return them to your brother.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If your fellow Israelite is not nearby, or if you do not know who they are, you must bring the lost item to your own home. It shall remain with you until your fellow Israelite comes looking for it, and then you must return it to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, you must act concerning his donkey, his clothing, or anything else your brother has lost that you have found. You are not allowed to ignore it or turn away. You must take responsibility and return it to him; you cannot avoid your duty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not ignore your fellow Israelite’s donkey or ox when it has fallen on the road. Do not turn away from them; you are obligated to help them lift the animal back up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A woman must not wear clothing that is specifically intended for a man, nor should a man put on garments designed for a woman. Anyone who does such things is detestable to the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you happen to come across a bird’s nest along your path, whether in a tree or on the ground, containing young birds or eggs, with the mother bird sitting on the young or the eggs, you must not take the mother along with the young.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you must by all means let the mother bird go, but you may take the young for yourself. Do this so that things may go well for you and that you may live a long life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you build a new house, you must construct a parapet around your roof, so that you do not bring guilt of bloodshed upon your household if someone falls from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not plant your vineyard with two kinds of seeds, or else the produce of the seeds you have sown and the fruit of your vineyard will become impure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not plow with an ox and a donkey yoked together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not wear clothing made of mixed materials, such as wool and linen woven together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to make tassels on the four corners of the garment you wear to cover yourself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man marries a woman and has sexual relations with her, but afterward comes to despise her,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will spread rumors about her and bring a bad reputation upon her, saying, "I married this woman, but when I approached her, I discovered she was not a virgin."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the young woman’s father and mother shall take and present the evidence of her virginity to the elders of the city at the gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The father of the young woman shall say to the elders, "I gave my daughter to this man as his wife, but he has come to despise her."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, he has made accusations against her, claiming, 'I did not find your daughter to be a virgin,' but here is the evidence of my daughter's virginity. They shall then lay the cloth before the elders of the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of that city shall take the man and discipline him;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man shall be fined one hundred shekels of silver, which must be given to the young woman’s father, because the man has publicly defamed a virgin of Israel. Furthermore, she shall remain his wife, and he is not permitted to divorce her as long as he lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if this accusation is found to be true, and evidence of the young woman’s virginity is not discovered,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they shall bring the young woman to the entrance of her father’s house, and the men of her town shall stone her to death, because she has committed a disgraceful act in Israel by behaving promiscuously while in her father’s household. In this way, you shall remove such evil from among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man is discovered having sexual relations with a woman who is married to another man, both of them must be put to death—the man who slept with the woman and the woman herself. In this way, you will remove such wickedness from Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a young woman who is a virgin is pledged to be married to a man, and another man encounters her in the city and has sexual relations with her,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall bring both of them out to the gate of that city and stone them to death—the young woman because she did not cry out for help while in the city, and the man because he violated his neighbor’s wife. In this way, you shall remove the evil from among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man encounters a young woman who is pledged to be married in a field and seizes her, forcing himself on her and having sexual relations with her, then only the man who committed this act shall be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you must not harm the young woman; she has committed no sin deserving of death. This situation is similar to when a man attacks his neighbor and kills him—it is the same principle here.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he came upon her in the open field, and though the engaged young woman cried out for help, there was no one to rescue her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man encounters a young woman who is a virgin and not engaged to be married, seizes her, and has sexual relations with her, and they are discovered,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man lies with a young woman who is not pledged to be married, he must pay her father fifty shekels of silver, and she will become his wife. Because he has violated her, he is not permitted to divorce her as long as he lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man must not marry his father’s wife or violate the honor of his father’s marriage bed.</span></p>






</body></html>