<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqc0bq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a36ce046-9b9b-b03b-ad57-6aa20926b10f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the words that Moses spoke to all Israel on the eastern side of the Jordan River, in the wilderness, on the plain opposite the Red Sea, between Paran on one side and Tophel, Laban, Hazeroth, and Dizahab on the other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The journey from Horeb to Kadesh-barnea by way of Mount Seir takes eleven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fortieth year, on the first day of the eleventh month, Moses addressed the Israelites, conveying to them everything that the LORD had commanded him to say.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had defeated Sihon, the king of the Amorites, who ruled in Heshbon, and Og, the king of Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth, near Edrei:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eastern side of the Jordan River, in the territory of Moab, Moses began to explain this law, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD our God spoke to us at Horeb, saying, "You have stayed long enough at this mountain."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Turn back and resume your journey. Go to the hill country of the Amorites and to all the neighboring regions—the lowlands, the highlands, the valleys, the southern areas, and the coastal lands. Enter the territory of the Canaanites, extending as far as Lebanon and up to the great river, the Euphrates.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, I have placed the land before you. Go in and take possession of the land that the LORD swore to your ancestors—Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob—to give to them and to their descendants after them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I spoke to you at that time, saying, "I am not able to carry the burden of you all by myself alone."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD your God has greatly increased your numbers, and today you are as numerous as the stars in the sky.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the LORD, the God of your ancestors, multiply you a thousand times more than you are now, and may He bless you, just as He has promised you!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How can I possibly carry the weight of your troubles, your burdens, and your disputes all by myself?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Choose wise, discerning, and respected individuals from among your tribes, and I will appoint them as your leaders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You responded to me and said, "What you have told us is good, and we will do it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I selected the leaders of your tribes, men who were wise and respected, and appointed them as your authorities—commanders over thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens, as well as officials within your tribes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, I gave this instruction to your judges: "Listen carefully to the disputes between your fellow Israelites, and judge fairly between each person and their relative, as well as the foreigner living among them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not show partiality when making judgments; you must listen to both the small and the great alike. Do not be intimidated by anyone, for judgment belongs to God. If a case is too difficult for you to decide, bring it to me, and I will hear it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, I instructed you in all the things you were to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When we left Horeb, we journeyed through that vast and fearsome wilderness, which you saw along the route toward the hill country of the Amorites, just as the LORD our God had instructed us. Eventually, we arrived at Kadesh-barnea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I said to you, "You have now arrived at the mountain of the Amorites, which the LORD our God is giving to us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the LORD your God has placed the land before you. Go up and take possession of it, just as the LORD, the God of your ancestors, has told you. Do not be afraid or lose heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all of you approached me and said, "Let us send men ahead of us to explore the land for us. They can report back to us about the route we should take and the cities we will encounter."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The proposal seemed good to me, so I selected twelve men from among you, one from each tribe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They changed direction and went up into the hill country, arriving at the Valley of Eshcol, where they thoroughly explored the area.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They gathered some of the fruit of the land and carried it back to us in their hands. They reported to us and said, "The land that the LORD our God is giving us is good."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Despite this, you refused to go up and instead rebelled against the command of the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you complained in your tents, saying, "Because the LORD despised us, He brought us out of the land of Egypt to hand us over to the Amorites, so they could destroy us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Where should we go now? Our fellow Israelites have disheartened us by saying, "The people there are stronger and taller than we are; their cities are large and fortified, with walls reaching to the sky. What’s more, we have seen the descendants of the Anakim there."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I said to you, "Do not fear or be terrified of them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD your God, who goes ahead of you, will fight for you, just as He did for you in Egypt, right before your eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And in the wilderness, where you witnessed how the LORD your God carried you, just as a man carries his son, throughout the entire journey you made, until you arrived at this place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this matter, you did not trust in the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who went ahead of you on your journey to find a place for you to set up camp, guiding you with fire at night to show you the path you should take, and with a cloud during the day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD heard what you said, and He became angry. He then made a solemn declaration, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, not one of these men from this wicked generation will see the good land that I promised to give to your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Except for Caleb, the son of Jephunneh—he will see the land, and I will give him and his descendants the land he has walked upon, because he has fully devoted himself to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD was also displeased with me because of you, declaring, "You too shall not enter there."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Joshua, the son of Nun, who serves you faithfully, he will enter there. Strengthen and encourage him, for he will lead Israel to take possession of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, your young children, whom you feared would become plunder, and your offspring, who at that time did not yet understand the difference between good and evil—they will enter the land, and I will give it to them. They will take possession of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But as for you, turn back and set out on your journey toward the wilderness by the route of the Red Sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you responded to me, saying, "We have sinned against the LORD. We will go up and fight, just as the LORD our God has commanded us." So each of you prepared for battle, arming yourselves with your weapons, and you were ready to advance into the hill country.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "Tell them, 'Do not go up or engage in battle, for I am not with you. If you do, you will be defeated by your enemies.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I spoke to you, but you refused to listen. Instead, you rebelled against the command of the LORD and defiantly went up into the hill country.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Amorites, who lived in that hill country, came out to confront you and pursued you like a swarm of bees. They overwhelmed you and drove you back as far as Seir, all the way to Hormah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You turned back and wept before the LORD, but the LORD did not listen to your cries or pay attention to your pleas.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So you remained in Kadesh for many days, just as long as you had stayed there before.</span></p>






</body></html>