<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 26</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqfd58.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2fb6a3da-2334-3955-347d-f6ed36cff519" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 26</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, and appointed him as king to succeed his father Amaziah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He rebuilt Eloth and restored it to Judah after the king died and was buried with his ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Uzziah was sixteen years old when he became king, and he ruled for fifty-two years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jecoliah, and she was from Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, following all the ways of his father Amaziah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the time of Zechariah, who was skilled in interpreting the visions of God, he sought the Lord. And as long as he continued to seek the Lord, God caused him to prosper.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He went out and fought against the Philistines, tearing down the walls of Gath, Jabneh, and Ashdod. He also built cities in the vicinity of Ashdod and in other areas among the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And God gave him victory over the Philistines, as well as over the Arabians who lived in Gurbaal, and over the Meunites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Ammonites brought tribute to Uzziah, and his fame spread far and wide, reaching even to the border of Egypt, for he had grown exceedingly powerful.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, Uzziah constructed towers in Jerusalem at the Corner Gate, the Valley Gate, and at the angle where the wall turns, and he strengthened them with fortifications.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also constructed towers in the wilderness and dug many wells, for he owned large herds of livestock, both in the lowlands and on the plains. Additionally, he had farmers and vineyard workers in the hill country and in Carmel, for he had a deep passion for agriculture.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, Uzziah had a well-organized army of soldiers ready for battle, divided into companies. The number of troops was recorded by Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the officer, under the supervision of Hananiah, one of the king’s commanders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total count of the leaders among the ancestral families, who were mighty warriors, was two thousand six hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Under their command was an army of 307,500 soldiers, who waged war with great strength to assist the king against his enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Uzziah equipped the entire army with shields, spears, helmets, coats of armor, bows, and slings for hurling stones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In Jerusalem, he constructed advanced weapons, designed by skilled craftsmen, to be placed on the towers and fortifications. These devices were used to shoot arrows and hurl large stones. His reputation spread far and wide, for he received extraordinary assistance until he became powerful.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when he became powerful, his pride led to his downfall. He acted unfaithfully against the LORD his God by entering the LORD’s temple to burn incense on the altar of incense, which was not his right to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Azariah the priest entered after him, accompanied by eighty priests of the LORD, who were courageous and steadfast men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They confronted King Uzziah and said to him, "Uzziah, it is not your place to burn incense to the LORD. That duty belongs to the priests, the descendants of Aaron, who have been set apart to burn incense. Leave the sanctuary, for you have committed an offense. This will not bring you honor from the LORD God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Uzziah became furious, holding a censer in his hand to burn incense. While he was enraged at the priests, leprosy suddenly broke out on his forehead in the presence of the priests, right there in the house of the LORD, near the incense altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Azariah, the chief priest, along with all the other priests, looked at him and saw that his forehead was covered with leprosy. They immediately forced him to leave, and he himself hurried to go out because the LORD had struck him with this affliction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Uzziah remained a leper until the day he died. Because of his leprosy, he lived in a separate house, isolated from the house of the LORD. His son Jotham was in charge of the royal palace and governed the people of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Uzziah's reign, from beginning to end, were recorded by the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Uzziah died and was buried with his ancestors in the burial field that belonged to the kings, for they said, “He was a leper.” His son Jotham then became king in his place.</span></p>






</body></html>