<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Zechariah Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqhc6i.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2a8c8bf5-41cf-ba97-445c-2fbaa5deef29" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Zechariah Chapter 12</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message from the LORD concerning Israel, declares the LORD, who stretches out the heavens, establishes the foundation of the earth, and shapes the spirit of humanity within them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will make Jerusalem like a cup that causes staggering to all the surrounding nations. When they come to lay siege against Judah and Jerusalem, they will be overwhelmed and thrown into confusion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, I will make Jerusalem a heavy, immovable stone for all the nations. All who try to lift or carry it will injure themselves severely, even if all the peoples of the earth unite against it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, declares the LORD, I will strike every horse with confusion and its rider with madness. I will turn my attention to the house of Judah and strike all the horses of the enemy armies with blindness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of Judah will say in their hearts, "The people of Jerusalem will be my strength, for they rely on the LORD of hosts, their God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, I will make the leaders of Judah like a blazing fire among wood, and like a flaming torch in a stack of grain. They will consume all the surrounding peoples, both to the right and to the left. And Jerusalem will once again be inhabited in its rightful place—in Jerusalem itself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will first deliver the dwellings of Judah, so that the honor of the house of David and the honor of those living in Jerusalem may not become greater than that of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the LORD will protect the people of Jerusalem. Even the weakest among them will be as strong as David, and the family of David will be like God, like the angel of the LORD leading them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day that I will act to annihilate all the nations that rise up against Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will pour out upon the house of David and the people of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and heartfelt prayer. They will look to me, the one they have pierced, and they will mourn for him as one mourns for an only son. They will grieve bitterly for him, as one grieves for a firstborn child. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, there will be profound mourning in Jerusalem, like the mourning for Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land will mourn, each family in isolation: the family of the house of David by themselves, and their wives by themselves; the family of the house of Nathan by themselves, and their wives by themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The family of the house of Levi stood separately, along with their wives; the family of Shimei also stood separately, along with their wives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the remaining families, each family by itself, and their wives separately.</span></p>






</body></html>