<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 24</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqjmwp.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a8292c8b-d410-05f3-de7d-4ec9d5971d98" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 24</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joash was seven years old when he became king, and he ruled for forty years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Zibiah, and she was from Beersheba.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joash did what was right in the eyes of the LORD throughout the lifetime of Jehoiada the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoiada took two wives for himself, and he fathered sons and daughters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, King Joash decided to restore the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He assembled the priests and the Levites and said to them, "Go out to the towns of Judah and collect money from all the people of Israel to repair the house of your God year by year. Make sure you act quickly in this matter." However, the Levites did not act with urgency.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king summoned Jehoiada, the chief priest, and said to him, "Why have you not instructed the Levites to collect the contributions from Judah and Jerusalem, as commanded by Moses, the servant of the LORD, and by the assembly of Israel, for the upkeep of the tabernacle of the covenant?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the sons of Athaliah, that wicked woman, had desecrated the house of God. Moreover, they took all the sacred objects dedicated to the house of the LORD and gave them over to the worship of the Baals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In obedience to the king’s order, they constructed a chest and placed it outside, at the entrance of the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They issued a decree throughout Judah and Jerusalem, calling on the people to bring to the LORD the contribution that Moses, the servant of God, had required of Israel during their time in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the leaders and all the people rejoiced, and they came forward, contributing their offerings and placing them into the chest until it was completely filled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, when the chest was brought to the king’s treasury by the Levites, and they noticed that it contained a large amount of money, the king’s secretary and the high priest’s representative came and emptied the chest. They then took it and returned it to its place. This was their daily routine, and they collected a great amount of money.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king and Jehoiada entrusted the funds to those who were responsible for the work of maintaining the house of the LORD. They hired stonemasons and carpenters to restore the temple, as well as workers skilled in iron and bronze to repair and strengthen the structure of the LORD’s house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The workers carried out their tasks, and through their efforts, the work was completed. They restored the house of God to its proper condition and reinforced its structure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they had completed the work, they brought the remaining funds to the king and Jehoiada. These funds were used to make sacred vessels for the house of the LORD—utensils for serving, offering, and other purposes, as well as gold and silver vessels. Throughout all the days of Jehoiada, they regularly presented burnt offerings in the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jehoiada grew old and lived a full life, and when he died, he was one hundred and thirty years old.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They laid him to rest in the City of David, in the burial place of the kings, because he had done what was good in Israel, both in his service to God and in his care for the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Jehoiada died, the leaders of Judah came and paid homage to the king. The king then listened to their counsel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They abandoned the house of the LORD, the God of their ancestors, and instead worshiped Asherah poles and idols. Because of this act of unfaithfulness, God’s anger came upon Judah and Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet He sent prophets to them, to call them back to the LORD; and they warned them, but they refused to listen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Spirit of God came upon Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada the priest, as he stood before the people, and he proclaimed to them, "This is what God says: Why do you break the commandments of the LORD? Because of this, you will not succeed. Since you have abandoned the LORD, He has also abandoned you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They plotted against him and, by the king’s order, stoned him to death in the courtyard of the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Thus, King Joash failed to remember the kindness that Jehoiada, his father, had shown him, and instead, he killed Jehoiada’s son. As Jehoiada lay dying, he said, “May the LORD see this and hold him accountable.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the end of the year, the army of Syria marched against him. They advanced into Judah and Jerusalem, killing all the leaders of the people and carrying off all their plunder, which they sent to the king of Damascus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Syrian army arrived with only a small force, yet the LORD allowed them to defeat a much larger army because the people had abandoned the LORD, the God of their ancestors. As a result, they carried out judgment against Joash.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they left him—for he was suffering from severe illnesses—his own servants conspired against him because of the bloodshed of the sons of Jehoiada the priest. They killed him in his bed, and he died. He was buried in the City of David, but they did not lay him in the tombs of the kings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are those who conspired against him: Zabad, the son of Shimeath, an Ammonite woman, and Jehozabad, the son of Shimrith, a Moabite woman.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now regarding his sons, the significant responsibilities placed upon him, and the restoration of the house of God, these details are recorded in the historical account found in the book of the kings. His son Amaziah succeeded him as king.</span></p>






</body></html>