<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 24</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqkm6q.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e945afbc-cc95-3aee-19c3-92fa4e7cc3c7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 24</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, in the ninth year, on the tenth day of the tenth month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, record the name of this very day, for on this exact day the king of Babylon has laid siege to Jerusalem."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak a parable to the rebellious house and say to them, "This is what the Lord GOD says: Place a pot on the fire, set it there, and pour water into it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Collect all the pieces into it, including every good portion—the thigh and the shoulder. Fill it with the finest bones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Select the finest from the flock, and place the bones beneath it. Bring it to a boil, ensuring it cooks thoroughly, and let the bones simmer within it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: "Woe to the city of bloodshed, to the pot that is corroded with filth, and whose filth has not been removed! Take it out piece by piece; do not let any part of it be spared."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For her blood remains within her; she placed it on the top of a rock; she did not pour it on the ground to cover it with dust.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have brought about wrath to rise up and execute vengeance. I have exposed her blood on the bare rock, leaving it uncovered, so that it cannot be hidden.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: "Woe to the city of bloodshed! I will make the pyre for the fire immense."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pile up the wood, ignite the fire, let the flesh be consumed, and season it thoroughly, while the bones are burned to ashes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then place the empty pot on the coals beneath it, so that its metal becomes hot, its filth melts within it, and its impurities are completely burned away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She has exhausted herself with falsehoods, and her thick filth has not been removed from her. Her filth will be consumed in the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your impurity is marked by depravity: because I sought to cleanse you, yet you refused to be cleansed, you will no longer be purified from your filthiness until I have fully poured out my wrath upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, the LORD, have declared it: it will surely happen, and I will bring it to pass. I will not turn back, nor will I relent, nor will I change my mind. According to your ways and your actions, you will be judged, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of the LORD also came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, listen carefully: I am about to take away from you the one you deeply love, suddenly and without warning. Yet you must not mourn or weep, nor let your tears flow."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not weep or mourn for the dead. Keep your headdress securely in place, and put your sandals on your feet. Do not cover your lips, and do not eat the food that others bring to comfort you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I spoke to the people in the morning, and that evening my wife died. The next morning, I did as I had been commanded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people said to me, "Will you not explain to us what these actions of yours mean for us? Why are you doing this?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I responded to them, saying, "The message of the LORD came to me, declaring..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the house of Israel and tell them this is what the Lord GOD says: Listen carefully, I am about to defile my sanctuary—the source of your pride, the object of your deepest longing, and the treasure you hold most dear. The sons and daughters you left behind will fall by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must follow my example: do not cover your mustache or beard, and do not eat the food provided by others in mourning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will keep your head coverings on and your sandals on your feet. You will not mourn or weep, but you will waste away because of your sins and grieve silently among yourselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ezekiel serves as a sign for you: just as he has done, so you will do. When these things come to pass, you will know that I am the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, son of man, on the day when I take away from them their strength—the source of their pride, the delight of their eyes, the object of their deepest longing, and the focus of their hearts—their sons and daughters—will it not come to pass?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, whoever escapes will come to you, so that you may hear the news with your own ears.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, your mouth will be opened to speak to the one who has escaped, and you will no longer remain silent. You will serve as a sign to them, and they will come to understand that I am the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>