<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqp3sz.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:927933a7-d79f-24d5-6704-ce8dae166007" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for those who issue unjust laws and write oppressive decrees, enforcing burdens that they themselves have devised!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To deny justice to the needy and to strip the rights of the poor among my people, so that widows become their plunder and the fatherless their prey!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What will you do when the day of reckoning comes, and when the devastation arrives from a distant land? To whom will you run for help? Where will you leave your wealth and honor?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Without me, they will be forced to bow down among the captives and will fall among the slain. Despite all this, his anger has not subsided, and his hand remains outstretched in judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Assyria, you are the instrument of my wrath, and the staff in your hand is the expression of my anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will send him against a deceitful nation, and against the people who have provoked my anger I will command him to seize the plunder, to take the spoils, and to trample them down like mud in the streets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, this is not his true intention, nor does his heart truly think this way; instead, his heart is set on destruction, aiming to annihilate and wipe out many nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he says, "Are not my commanders all like kings?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is Calno not like Carchemish? Is Hamath not like Arpad? Is Samaria not like Damascus?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as my hand has conquered the kingdoms of idol worshipers, whose carved images surpassed those of Jerusalem and Samaria in grandeur and number,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Should I not deal with Jerusalem and her idols just as I have dealt with Samaria and her idols?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, it will come to pass that when the Lord has completed all His work on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, I will bring judgment upon the arrogant pride of the king of Assyria and the haughty demeanor of his lofty looks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he declares, "By my own power I have accomplished this, and through my wisdom, for I am shrewd. I have shifted the borders of nations, plundered their treasures, and brought down their rulers like a mighty warrior."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My power has seized the wealth of the nations as easily as one takes eggs from a nest. Just as someone gathers abandoned eggs, I have gathered the entire earth. No one fluttered a wing, opened their mouth, or made even the slightest sound to resist me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Does the axe claim superiority over the one who wields it? Or does the saw exalt itself above the one who uses it? It would be as absurd as a rod rising up against the one who lifts it, or a staff asserting its own power, as though it were not merely a piece of wood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the Lord, the Lord of hosts, will bring a wasting condition upon those who are well-fed and prosperous; and beneath their splendor, He will ignite a consuming fire, like the blaze of a raging flame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The light of Israel will become like a fire, and its Holy One like a flame. It will burn and consume his thorns and briers in a single day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will destroy the splendor of his forest and his fertile fields, both body and soul. They will wither away like a banner-bearer collapsing from exhaustion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the remaining trees of his forest will be so few that even a child could count them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day that the remnant of Israel and those who have survived from the house of Jacob will no longer rely on the one who struck them down. Instead, they will place their trust in the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, with sincerity and faithfulness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining survivors will return, even the remnant of Jacob, to the mighty God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For even though your people Israel are as numerous as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will return. The destruction that has been decreed will come in full measure, but it will be accompanied by an outpouring of justice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the Lord GOD of hosts will bring about a complete and decisive destruction throughout the entire land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD of hosts declares: "My people who dwell in Zion, do not fear the Assyrian. Though he strikes you with a rod and raises his staff against you, as the Egyptians once did, do not be afraid.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In just a little while longer, my wrath will come to an end, and my anger will cease as I bring about their destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD of hosts will unleash a devastating punishment against him, like the destruction of Midian at the rock of Oreb. Just as his rod was raised over the sea, so will he lift it again in the same way he did against Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day that the burden placed upon you will be lifted from your shoulder, and the yoke from your neck. The yoke will be shattered because of the anointing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has arrived at Aiath; he has moved on to Migron. At Michmash, he has stored his equipment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have crossed over the pass; they have made their camp at Geba. Ramah trembles with fear; Gibeah of Saul has fled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Raise your voice, O daughter of Gallim; let it be heard as far as Laish, O afflicted Anathoth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Madmenah has been abandoned; the people of Gebim are gathering to flee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, he will remain at Nob, and he will raise his hand in defiance against the mountain of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: The Lord, the LORD of all armies, will strike down the mighty branches with terrifying force. Those who stand tall and proud will be cut down, and the arrogant will be brought low.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will clear away the dense thickets of the forest with iron tools, and the mighty trees of Lebanon will be brought down by a powerful force.</span></p>






</body></html>