<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqp9hr.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a6a016ce-7d88-7bcc-7cd9-38cc4788e244" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and search throughout the streets of Jerusalem. Look carefully and see if you can find anyone—if there is even one person—who acts justly and seeks the truth. If you find such a person, I will forgive the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even though they declare, "The LORD lives," they are certainly swearing deceitfully.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, do You not see what is true and right? You have struck them, yet they feel no sorrow; You have brought them to ruin, yet they refuse to accept correction. They have hardened their faces like stone; they have stubbornly refused to turn back.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore I said, "These people are surely impoverished and foolish, for they do not understand the ways of the LORD or the justice of their God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will go to the leaders and speak with them, for they should know the way of the LORD and the justice of their God. Yet, they have completely shattered the yoke and torn apart the bonds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, a lion from the forest will attack them, and a wolf from the desert will ravage them. A leopard will lie in wait near their cities, and anyone who ventures out will be torn apart. This will happen because their sins are numerous and their acts of rebellion have greatly increased.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How can I possibly forgive you for this? Your children have abandoned me and made vows by gods that do not exist. Even though I provided for them abundantly and satisfied all their needs, they turned to adultery and gathered in groups at the houses of prostitutes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were like well-fed stallions in the morning, each one lustfully pursuing his neighbor's wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Should I not punish them for these deeds?" says the LORD. "Should I not avenge myself on a nation like this?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go up onto her walls and tear them down, but do not completely destroy her. Remove her fortifications, for they do not belong to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord declares, "The house of Israel and the house of Judah have acted with great treachery against me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have spoken falsely about the LORD, saying, "He is not the one who acts; no harm will come upon us, nor will we face the sword or famine."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prophets will become like mere wind, and the word of God will not be with them. This is what will happen to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD God of hosts declares: Because you have spoken these words, I will make my words in your mouth like fire, and this people like wood, and they will be consumed by it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, I am going to bring a nation against you from a distant land, O house of Israel, declares the LORD. It is a powerful nation, an ancient nation, a nation whose language you do not know, nor can you understand what they say.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their arsenal is like an open grave; they are all powerful warriors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will consume your harvest and the food meant for your sons and daughters. They will devour your flocks and herds, your vineyards and fig trees. They will bring ruin to your fortified cities, in which you placed your trust, by the force of the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nevertheless, in those days, declares the LORD, I will not completely destroy you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: when you ask, "Why has the LORD our God done all these things to us?" then you will answer them, "Just as you have abandoned me and served foreign gods in your own land, so you will serve foreigners in a land that is not your own."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Proclaim this message throughout the house of Jacob, and announce it in Judah, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to this, you foolish and senseless people, who have eyes but fail to see, and ears but fail to hear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do you not fear me? says the LORD. Will you not tremble before my presence? I am the one who set the sand as a boundary for the sea, an eternal decree that it cannot cross. Though the waves surge and churn, they cannot overcome it; though they roar, they cannot break through.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But this people has a defiant and rebellious heart; they have turned away and departed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They do not even consider in their hearts, "Let us now revere the LORD our God, who sends both the early and the late rain in its proper season, and who ensures for us the appointed weeks of the harvest."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your wrongdoing has caused these blessings to depart, and your sins have prevented good things from coming to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Among my people, there are wicked individuals who act like hunters setting traps: they lie in wait, set their snares, and capture people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as a cage is filled with birds, so their homes are filled with dishonesty. Because of this, they have grown powerful and amassed wealth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have grown fat and sleek; indeed, they excel in wickedness. They do not defend the case of the fatherless, yet they thrive; and they fail to uphold the rights of the needy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Should I not punish them for these deeds?" says the LORD. "Should I not avenge myself on a nation like this?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A shocking and appalling act has been committed in the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prophets speak lies, and the priests exercise authority through their deceit; and my people delight in it being so. But what will you do when the consequences of this come to pass?</span></p>






</body></html>