<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqpsju.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:aaa6b7d0-6575-60a7-d894-08fcf11c7d4d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Joab, the son of Zeruiah, realized that the king’s feelings were inclined toward Absalom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab sent messengers to Tekoah and brought back a wise woman from there. He said to her, "Please pretend to be in mourning. Put on mourning clothes, and do not anoint yourself with oil. Act like a woman who has been grieving for the dead for a long time."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go to the king and speak to him in this way. Then Joab instructed her exactly what to say.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the woman from Tekoa spoke to the king, she bowed down with her face to the ground, showing deep respect, and pleaded, "Help me, Your Majesty!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to her, "What troubles you?" She replied, "I am truly a widow; my husband is dead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your servant had two sons, and they fought with each other in the field. There was no one there to separate them, and one struck the other and killed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, look, my entire family has turned against me, your servant. They are demanding, 'Hand over the one who struck down his brother, so we can put him to death for taking his brother’s life.' They also intend to destroy the heir, leaving no one to carry on my husband’s name or legacy. In this way, they will extinguish the last spark of hope I have left, ensuring that my husband has neither a name nor a descendant remaining on the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to the woman, "Return to your home, and I will issue orders concerning you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman from Tekoah said to the king, "My lord, O king, let the guilt for any wrongdoing fall on me and on my father’s family, but may the king and his throne remain free from blame."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said, "If anyone says anything to you, bring them to me, and they will not harm you again."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then she said, "Please, may the king remember the LORD your God, so that you will not allow the avengers of blood to cause any more destruction, and they do not kill my son." And he replied, "As surely as the LORD lives, not a single hair of your son’s head will fall to the ground."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the woman said, "Please, may your servant speak a word to my lord the king?" And he replied, "Go ahead, speak."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman replied, "Why then have you devised such a thing against the people of God? By saying this, the king condemns himself, for he has not brought back his own banished one."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For we are destined to die, and our lives are like water poured out on the ground, which cannot be gathered up again. Yet God does not show favoritism to anyone; instead, He devises ways so that those who are banished may not be permanently separated from Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, since I have come to speak to my lord the king about this matter, it is because the people have made me fearful. So I, your servant, thought to myself, "I will speak to the king; perhaps the king will grant the request of his servant."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king will listen and rescue his servant from the power of the man who seeks to destroy both me and my son, cutting us off from the inheritance God has given us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then your servant said, "May the words of my lord the king bring comfort, for my lord the king is like an angel of God in discerning good and evil. Therefore, may the LORD your God be with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king responded and said to the woman, "Please, do not withhold from me the answer to what I am about to ask you." The woman replied, "Let my lord the king speak now."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said, “Isn’t Joab behind all this with you?” The woman replied, “As surely as you live, my lord the king, no one can deviate to the right or to the left from anything my lord the king has said. Your servant Joab instructed me and put all these words in my mouth.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your servant Joab has orchestrated this matter to bring about this outcome. And my lord is wise, possessing the wisdom of an angel of God, to discern all things that take place on the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to Joab, "Listen, I have granted this request. Now go and bring back the young man Absalom."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab fell to the ground, prostrating himself, and bowed low before the king. He expressed his gratitude, saying, "Today your servant knows that I have found favor in your sight, my lord the king, because the king has granted the request of his servant."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joab got up and went to Geshur, and he brought Absalom back to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said, "Let him return to his own house, but he must not come into my presence." So Absalom went back to his own house and was not allowed to see the king's face.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Throughout all of Israel, no one was as highly praised for his appearance as Absalom. From the bottom of his feet to the top of his head, there was no flaw in him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when he cut his hair—for he did so at the end of each year because his hair became too heavy for him—he would weigh the hair of his head, and it came to two hundred shekels by the royal standard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Absalom had three sons and one daughter named Tamar, who was a woman of beautiful appearance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Absalom lived in Jerusalem for two full years without ever seeing the king’s face.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Absalom sent for Joab, intending to send him to the king, but Joab refused to come to him. When Absalom sent for him a second time, Joab still refused to come.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he said to his servants, "Look, Joab’s field is next to mine, and he has barley growing there. Go and set it on fire." And Absalom’s servants went and set the field ablaze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joab got up and went to Absalom's house. He said to him, "Why have your servants set my field on fire?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Absalom replied to Joab, "Look, I sent a message to you, saying, 'Come here so I can send you to the king to ask, "Why did I return from Geshur? It would have been better for me to remain there." Now, let me see the king's face. If I am guilty of any wrongdoing, let him put me to death.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joab went to the king and informed him. When the king summoned Absalom, he came before the king and bowed low, his face to the ground in reverence. Then the king kissed Absalom.</span></p>






</body></html>