<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqqg7i.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:26c88e52-d41c-8bfd-f1f0-5ff9de30f306" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD's message came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, present a riddle and tell a parable to the people of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And proclaim this message: This is what the Lord GOD says: A mighty eagle with vast wings, broad in span and covered with multicolored feathers, came to Lebanon and took hold of the highest branch of the cedar tree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He cut off the strongest of its young shoots and carried it to a land of commerce; he planted it in a city of merchants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also took some of the native seed and planted it in fertile soil. He placed it beside abundant waters, setting it like a willow tree, where it could thrive and grow strong.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The plant grew and became a spreading vine, though it remained low in height. Its branches turned toward him, and its roots spread out beneath him. In this way, it developed into a vine, producing branches and sending out shoots.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was also another great eagle with large wings and abundant plumage. And behold, this vine stretched its roots toward him and extended its branches in his direction, so that he might provide water for it through the channels of its planting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It was planted in fertile soil, near abundant waters, so that it could grow strong branches, produce fruit, and become a splendid vine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Say this: Thus says the Lord GOD: Will it thrive? Will he not uproot it and strip off its fruit, causing it to wither? It will wither in all its fresh, green leaves, even without great strength or a large number of people to pull it up by its roots.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, consider this: even if it is planted, will it thrive? Will it not completely wither when the east wind strikes it? It will dry up and wither in the very rows where it once grew.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the message of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak now to this defiant household: Do you not understand what these things signify? Declare to them: Look, the king of Babylon has come to Jerusalem, captured its king and its leaders, and taken them away as captives to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has taken one from the royal family and made a covenant with him, binding him with an oath. He has also taken away the leading figures of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that the kingdom might remain humble and not exalt itself, but by faithfully upholding His covenant, it would endure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he rebelled against him by sending his ambassadors to Egypt, seeking horses and a large army. Will he succeed? Will he escape punishment for doing such things? Can he break the covenant and still be delivered?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, in the very place where the king who appointed him as king resides—the king whose oath he disregarded and whose covenant he violated—he will die, right there in the heart of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh, with his powerful army and vast forces, will not be able to assist him in battle, no matter how many siege ramps they build or fortresses they construct to destroy many lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because he showed contempt for the solemn oath by violating the covenant—even though he had pledged his word and committed himself to it—and then proceeded to do all these things, he will not escape judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: As surely as I live, because he has treated my oath with contempt and broken my covenant, I will bring the consequences of his actions upon his own head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cast my net over him, and he will be caught in my trap. I will bring him to Babylon, and there I will confront him for the offense he has committed against me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All those who flee from him, along with all his troops, will fall by the sword, and those who survive will be scattered to every direction of the wind. Then you will know that I, the LORD, have declared it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: I will take a shoot from the very top of the tall cedar, and I will plant it. From the uppermost branches of its young twigs, I will pluck a tender shoot and plant it on a high and lofty mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the high mountain of Israel I will plant it, and it will grow branches, produce fruit, and become a majestic cedar. Birds of every kind will nest in it, finding shelter in the shade of its branches.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all the trees of the field will recognize that I, the LORD, have brought down the lofty tree, raised up the humble tree, caused the flourishing tree to wither, and made the withered tree thrive. I, the LORD, have declared it, and I have accomplished it.</span></p>






</body></html>