<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 26</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqrsww.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7eeeee0c-1291-975a-41f0-697ff630031d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 26</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not make any idols or carved images for yourselves, nor set up any sacred pillars, nor place any stone figures in your land to bow down to them, for I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must observe my Sabbaths and honor my sanctuary with reverence. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you live according to my decrees, faithfully observe my commandments, and put them into practice,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will send you rain at the proper time, and the land will produce its crops, and the trees of the field will bear their fruit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your harvest will continue until the grape-gathering season, and the grape-gathering will last until the time for sowing. You will eat your food in abundance and live securely in your land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring peace to the land, and you will lie down to rest without fear. I will remove dangerous animals from the land, and no sword of war will pass through your territory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will pursue your enemies, and they will be struck down before you by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Five of you will pursue a hundred, and a hundred of you will cause ten thousand to flee. Your enemies will fall before you by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will show favor to you, make you prosper, and increase your numbers. I will also uphold and confirm my covenant with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will eat from the stored-up provisions of previous years, and you will clear out the old to make room for the new.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will establish my dwelling place among you, and I will not reject you or turn away from you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will live among you, and I will be your God, and you will be my people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt so that you would no longer be their slaves. I have shattered the chains of your oppression and set you free to walk with dignity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you refuse to listen to me and fail to carry out all these commands,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you reject my statutes, or if your soul detests my decrees, so that you refuse to carry out all my commands and thereby violate my covenant,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also bring this upon you: I will send terror, wasting disease, and fever that will destroy your sight and drain your life, causing deep sorrow. You will plant your seed in vain, for your enemies will consume what you have sown.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will turn my attention against you, and you will be defeated by your enemies. Those who despise you will rule over you, and you will flee in terror even when no one is pursuing you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if, despite all this, you still refuse to listen to me, then I will increase your punishment sevenfold for your sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will shatter the arrogance of your strength, and I will turn your sky as hard as iron and your ground as unyielding as bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your efforts will be wasted, for your land will not produce its crops, and the trees of the land will not bear their fruit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you continue to act in opposition to me and refuse to listen to me, I will bring upon you sevenfold more plagues, in keeping with the severity of your sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also send wild animals among you, which will take away your children, destroy your livestock, and reduce your numbers. Your roads will become deserted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if you refuse to be corrected by me through these things and continue to act in opposition to me,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you persist in disobedience, I will also oppose you and bring upon you sevenfold punishment for your sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring a sword against you to execute vengeance for the violation of my covenant. When you gather together in your cities, I will send a plague among you, and you will be handed over to the power of your enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I cut off your supply of bread, ten women will bake your bread in a single oven, and they will ration out your bread by weight. You will eat, but you will not be satisfied.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if, despite all this, you still refuse to listen to me and continue to oppose me,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you persist in your disobedience, I will respond with hostility and fierce anger. I myself will punish you severely, multiplying your suffering sevenfold because of your sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be driven to such extreme desperation that you will consume the flesh of your sons and the flesh of your daughters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will demolish your sacred high places, tear down your idols, and throw your lifeless bodies onto the remains of your false gods. My very being will detest you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will turn your cities into ruins and make your sacred places desolate. I will no longer accept the pleasing aroma of your offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause the land to become desolate, and your enemies who settle there will be utterly appalled by it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will disperse you among the nations and pursue you with the sword. Your land will become desolate, and your cities will lie in ruins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the land will finally observe its Sabbaths, for as long as it lies desolate while you are in the land of your enemies. During that time, the land will rest and fulfill its Sabbath years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As long as the land remains desolate, it will have its rest—the rest it did not have during your Sabbaths when you lived on it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For those of you who remain alive, I will bring a deep fear into your hearts in the lands of your enemies. The sound of a rustling leaf will cause you to flee, as though running from a sword. You will fall even when no one is pursuing you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will collapse one upon another, as if struck by a sword, even when no one is pursuing them. You will be unable to stand firm against your enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will die among the nations, and the land of your enemies will consume you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those of you who remain will waste away because of their sins in the lands of your enemies, and they will also waste away because of the sins of their ancestors, enduring the consequences alongside them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If they acknowledge their guilt and the wrongdoing of their ancestors—their unfaithfulness toward me and how they opposed me—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if I, too, have acted in opposition to them and brought them into the land of their enemies, then if their stubborn hearts are humbled and they accept the consequences of their guilt,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, I will recall my covenant with Jacob, my covenant with Isaac, and my covenant with Abraham. I will also remember the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land will be abandoned by them and will enjoy its Sabbaths as it lies desolate in their absence. They will bear the consequences of their guilt because they rejected my laws and their very souls detested my decrees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even so, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not reject them or despise them to the point of completely destroying them and breaking my covenant with them, for I am the LORD their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, for their sake, I will remember the covenant I made with their ancestors, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt in the presence of the nations, so that I might be their God. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the decrees, regulations, and laws that the LORD established between Himself and the people of Israel at Mount Sinai through Moses.</span></p>






</body></html>