<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqs5yi.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a279384e-2416-7432-10d3-80d580f892ee" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then we turned and began our journey into the wilderness, heading toward the Red Sea, just as the LORD had instructed me. For many days, we traveled around the region of Mount Seir.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have wandered around this mountain long enough; now turn and head northward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then instruct the people, saying, "You are about to pass through the territory of your relatives, the descendants of Esau, who live in Seir. They will be fearful of you, so be very careful in how you conduct yourselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not interfere with them, for I will not give you any part of their land, not even enough to set your foot on, because I have given Mount Seir to Esau as his possession.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You may purchase food from them with money so that you may eat, and you may also buy water from them with money so that you may drink.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD your God has blessed you in all the work of your hands. He has watched over your journey through this vast wilderness. Throughout these forty years, the LORD your God has been with you, and you have not lacked anything.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As we journeyed past our relatives, the descendants of Esau who lived in Seir, we traveled along the route of the Arabah, starting from Elath and Ezion-geber. Then we turned and made our way through the wilderness of Moab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "Do not trouble the Moabites or engage them in battle, for I will not give you any of their land as a possession. This is because I have given Ar to the descendants of Lot as their inheritance."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In former times, the Emim lived there—a people who were great, numerous, and tall, like the Anakim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These people were also considered giants, like the Anakim; but the Moabites referred to them as Emim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Horites previously lived in Seir, but the descendants of Esau displaced them. After destroying them, the descendants of Esau settled in their place, just as Israel did in the land of their inheritance, which the LORD had given to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Now, rise up," I said, "and cross over the Zered Valley." So we crossed over the Zered Valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The time it took for us to travel from Kadesh-barnea until we crossed the Zered Valley was thirty-eight years. By then, the entire generation of fighting men had perished from the camp, just as the LORD had sworn to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, the hand of the LORD was set against them, bringing about their destruction and removing them from the community until they were completely wiped out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so it happened, when all the men of war had perished and died from among the people,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to cross over through Ar, along the border of Moab, today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you approach the territory of the Ammonites, do not harass them or provoke conflict with them, for I will not give you any portion of their land as a possession. I have given it to the descendants of Lot as their inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This land was also considered a territory of giants, for giants once lived there in ancient times. The Ammonites refer to them as Zamzummim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A people numerous, mighty, and tall, like the Anakim; but the LORD destroyed them before the Israelites, and they took possession of their land and settled in their place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as He did to the descendants of Esau, who lived in Seir, when He destroyed the Horites before them. The descendants of Esau drove them out and settled in their place, where they remain to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Avvim, who lived in the villages as far as Gaza, were destroyed by the Caphtorim, who came from Caphtor, and the Caphtorim settled in their place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Get ready, set out on your journey, and cross the Arnon River. Look, I have handed over to you Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land. Begin to take possession of it, and engage him in battle."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today I will begin to instill terror and fear of you among all the nations under heaven. When they hear reports about you, they will tremble and be filled with anguish because of you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I dispatched messengers from the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon, the king of Heshbon, with a message of peace, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Allow me to travel through your land: I will stay on the main road and will not turn aside to the right or to the left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must sell me food for money so that I may eat, and provide me water for money so that I may drink. I only ask to pass through on foot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as the descendants of Esau who live in Seir and the Moabites who live in Ar treated me, I will act in the same way until I cross the Jordan into the land that the LORD our God is giving to us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Sihon, the king of Heshbon, refused to allow us to pass through his territory. This was because the LORD your God had made his spirit stubborn and his heart unyielding, so that He might hand him over to you, as is evident today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "Look, I have already begun to deliver Sihon and his land to you. Now begin to take possession of it, so that you may inherit his territory."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Sihon marched out to confront us, he and all his forces, to engage in battle at Jahaz.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD our God handed him over to us, and we defeated him, along with his sons and all his people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, we captured all of his cities and completely destroyed them. We annihilated every person—men, women, and children—in each city, leaving no survivors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We kept only the livestock as plunder for ourselves, along with the goods from the cities we captured.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Aroer, located on the edge of the Arnon River, and from the town situated along the river, all the way to Gilead, there was no city too fortified for us to conquer. The LORD our God gave all of them into our hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You did not enter the land of the Ammonites, nor did you approach any part of the Jabbok River, nor the cities in the hill country, nor any place that the LORD our God had forbidden us to go.</span></p>






</body></html>