<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqtr1y.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:70a52392-8a8f-aa25-390c-5095d9521104" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A portion was also allotted to the tribe of Manasseh, for he was the firstborn of Joseph. Specifically, Machir, the firstborn of Manasseh and the father of Gilead, received his inheritance. Because Machir was a warrior, he was given the regions of Gilead and Bashan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006278"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining descendants of Manasseh also received their allotted portions according to their families. These included the families of Abiezer, Helek, Asriel, Shechem, Hepher, and Shemida. These were the male descendants of Manasseh, the son of Joseph, grouped by their family lines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006279"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, who was the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, had no sons, only daughters. The names of his daughters were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006280"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They approached Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the leaders, saying, "The LORD commanded Moses to grant us an inheritance among our relatives." So, in accordance with the LORD's command, they were given an inheritance among their father's relatives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Manasseh received ten shares of land, in addition to the territories of Gilead and Bashan, which were located on the eastern side of the Jordan River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006282"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because the daughters of Manasseh received an inheritance alongside his sons, while the remaining sons of Manasseh were given the land of Gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The territory of Manasseh extended from Asher to Michmethah, which lies near Shechem. From there, the boundary continued to the south, reaching the inhabitants of En-tappuah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Manasseh possessed the territory of Tappuah, but the town of Tappuah itself, located on the border of Manasseh, belonged to the descendants of Ephraim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boundary extended down to the Kanah River, south of the river. These cities belonged to Ephraim but were located among the cities of Manasseh. The territory of Manasseh lay on the north side of the river, and its boundary reached to the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the south, the land belonged to Ephraim, and to the north, it belonged to Manasseh. The sea served as their western boundary. Their territories extended and connected in Asher to the north and in Issachar to the east.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Manasseh held territories within the regions of Issachar and Asher, including Beth-shean and its surrounding villages, Ibleam and its villages, as well as the inhabitants of Dor and its villages, the inhabitants of En-dor and its villages, the inhabitants of Taanach and its villages, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and its villages. These areas comprised three districts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the descendants of Manasseh were unable to drive out the inhabitants of those cities, so the Canaanites continued to live in that land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when the Israelites grew stronger, they subjected the Canaanites to forced labor, but they did not completely drive them out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Joseph approached Joshua and said, "Why have you given us only one allotment and one portion as our inheritance? We are a numerous people, and the LORD has blessed us abundantly up to this point."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua replied to them, "If you are such a large people, then go up to the forested region and clear land for yourselves there in the territory of the Perizzites and the Rephaim, if the hill country of Ephraim is too small for you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Joseph replied, "The hill country is not enough for us. Moreover, all the Canaanites who live in the valley region have iron chariots, including those in Beth-shean and its surrounding towns, as well as those in the Valley of Jezreel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua addressed the house of Joseph, including Ephraim and Manasseh, saying, "You are a numerous and powerful people. You will not receive just one portion of land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the hill country will belong to you. Though it is forested, you will clear it, and its farthest limits will be yours. You will drive out the Canaanites, even though they have iron chariots and are powerful.</span></p>






</body></html>