<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Esther Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqtss3.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e1c71fed-7c2b-f449-6b4a-88d53201ef5f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Esther Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, King Ahasuerus honored Haman, the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, by elevating his status and granting him a position of authority higher than all the other officials who served alongside him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the king’s officials who were stationed at the king’s gate bowed down and paid homage to Haman, for the king had commanded that this be done for him. However, Mordecai refused to bow or show him any reverence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the royal officials who were stationed at the king’s gate said to Mordecai, “Why are you disobeying the king’s command?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Day after day, they spoke to him, but he refused to listen to them. So they informed Haman to see whether Mordecai’s actions would be tolerated, for he had told them that he was a Jew.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Haman saw that Mordecai neither bowed down nor showed him honor, he was filled with intense anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Haman considered it beneath him to target only Mordecai, for he had been informed of Mordecai’s people, the Jews. Therefore, Haman resolved to annihilate all the Jews throughout the entire kingdom of Ahasuerus—the entire people to whom Mordecai belonged.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the first month, which is the month of Nisan, during the twelfth year of King Ahasuerus’ reign, they cast Pur (that is, the lot) in Haman’s presence to determine a day and a month. The lot was cast repeatedly, day after day and month after month, until the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Haman said to King Ahasuerus, "There is a particular group of people scattered and dispersed among the other peoples throughout all the provinces of your kingdom. Their laws are different from those of all other peoples, and they do not obey the king's laws. Therefore, it is not in the king's best interest to tolerate them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If it pleases the king, let a decree be issued for their destruction. I will personally contribute ten thousand talents of silver to those responsible for carrying out this task, to be deposited into the king’s treasury.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king removed his signet ring from his hand and gave it to Haman, the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, who was an enemy of the Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to Haman, "The silver is yours, and the people as well; do with them as you see fit."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the thirteenth day of the first month, the king’s scribes were summoned. They wrote out orders exactly as Haman had directed, addressing them to the king’s officials, the governors of each province, and the leaders of every people group in every province. The orders were written in the script of each province and in the language of each people group. They were issued in the name of King Ahasuerus and sealed with the king’s signet ring.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The letters were dispatched by couriers to all the provinces of the king, commanding the destruction, slaughter, and annihilation of all Jews—young and old, women and children—on a single day, the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar. Additionally, their possessions were to be seized as plunder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A written decree was issued as a command to every province and made known to all the people, instructing them to prepare themselves for that appointed day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The messengers went out swiftly, driven by the king's urgent command, and the decree was issued in the royal palace of Susa. The king and Haman then sat down to feast and drink, but the city of Susa was thrown into confusion and turmoil.</span></p>






</body></html>