<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqv8bd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b59bdbaa-3d65-fce6-b132-1d1177586168" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after the Israelites had left the land of Egypt, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites must observe the Passover at its designated time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fourteenth day of this month, at twilight, you shall observe it at its appointed time. You shall keep it according to all its regulations and in accordance with all its prescribed customs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses instructed the Israelites to observe the Passover.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites observed the Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month, at twilight, in the wilderness of Sinai. They did everything exactly as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were some men who had become ritually unclean by coming into contact with a dead body, so they were unable to observe the Passover on the appointed day. On that same day, they approached Moses and Aaron to seek guidance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men said to him, "We have become ritually unclean because of contact with a dead body. Why should we be prevented from presenting the LORD's offering at the appointed time along with the rest of the Israelites?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to them, "Stay where you are, and I will listen to what the LORD instructs concerning you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell the Israelites this: If any of you or your descendants become ritually unclean because of contact with a dead body, or if you are on a distant journey, you are still to observe the Passover to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the evening of the fourteenth day of the second month, they shall observe it and eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They must not leave any of it until morning, nor break any of its bones. They are to observe it in accordance with all the regulations of the Passover.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if someone is ceremonially clean, not on a journey, and yet neglects to observe the Passover, that person shall be cut off from the community of his people. This is because he failed to present the LORD's offering at its appointed time. That individual will bear the consequences of his sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a foreigner resides among you and wishes to observe the Passover to honor the LORD, they must do so in accordance with the regulations and customs of the Passover. The same rules shall apply to both the foreigner and the native-born person; there shall be one law for all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the day the tabernacle was set up, the cloud covered it, specifically the tent of the covenant. In the evening, over the tabernacle there appeared something like fire, which remained until morning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This was the constant pattern: during the day, the cloud covered it, and at night, it had the appearance of fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the cloud lifted from the tabernacle, the Israelites would set out on their journey. And wherever the cloud settled, there the Israelites would set up camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the Lord's command, the Israelites set out on their journey, and at the Lord's command, they made camp. As long as the cloud remained over the tabernacle, they stayed in their tents and did not move.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the cloud remained over the tabernacle for many days, the Israelites obeyed the LORD's instruction and did not set out on their journey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so it happened that when the cloud remained over the tabernacle for several days, the people stayed in their camps, following the Lord’s instruction. And when the Lord commanded them to move on, they set out on their journey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so it happened that when the cloud remained from evening until morning, and then the cloud lifted in the morning, they would set out. Whether the cloud lifted during the day or at night, they would journey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whether it was two days, a month, or even a year—however long the cloud remained over the tabernacle—the Israelites stayed in their camp and did not set out. But when the cloud lifted, they would continue their journey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the LORD's command, they camped in their tents, and at the LORD's command, they set out on their journey. They faithfully carried out the duties assigned by the LORD, following His instructions given through Moses.</span></p>






</body></html>