<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Hebrews Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqwmee.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7b9d8d33-f158-678a-a586-eb0c6f3020ac" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Hebrews Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, the first covenant also had regulations for worship and an earthly sanctuary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A tabernacle was constructed, with the first section containing the lampstand, the table, and the bread of the Presence. This area is referred to as the Holy Place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And beyond the second curtain was the sacred tent called the Most Holy Place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This area contained the golden incense altar and the ark of the covenant, which was entirely covered with gold. Inside the ark were the golden jar holding the manna, Aaron’s staff that had budded, and the stone tablets inscribed with the terms of the covenant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Above it were the glorious cherubim overshadowing the atonement cover; concerning these things, we cannot now speak in detail.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now when these arrangements had been established, the priests would regularly enter the first section of the tabernacle to carry out their duties in serving God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But into the second room, the high priest entered alone once a year, and not without blood, which he offered both for his own sins and for the unintentional wrongdoings of the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Holy Spirit was indicating through this that the way into the Most Holy Place had not yet been revealed as long as the first tabernacle was still standing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This was a symbolic representation for the present time, during which both gifts and sacrifices were offered, yet these could not fully cleanse the conscience of the one performing the service or make them spiritually complete.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These regulations were concerned only with food and drink, various ceremonial washings, and external rules for the body, which were imposed until the time of restoration and renewal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when Christ came as the high priest of the good things that were to come, he entered through a greater and more perfect tabernacle, one not made by human hands—that is, not part of this created world.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, he entered once for all into the Most Holy Place, securing eternal redemption for us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if the blood of bulls and goats, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkled on those who are ceremonially unclean, sanctify them so that their bodies are purified,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How much more, then, will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, cleanse our consciences from acts that lead to death, so that we may serve the living God?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this reason, he is the mediator of the new covenant, so that through his death—bringing redemption for the sins committed under the first covenant—those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For when a will is established, it is necessary that the death of the one who made the will be confirmed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A will only takes effect after the death of the person who made it; it has no force or validity while the one who made it is still alive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, even the first covenant was not established without the shedding of blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For when Moses had fully declared every commandment of the law to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, along with water, scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the scroll of the covenant and all the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "This is the blood of the covenant that God has established with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, he sprinkled blood on both the tabernacle and all the sacred utensils used in worship.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nearly everything is purified according to the law through the shedding of blood, and without the shedding of blood, there can be no forgiveness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It was necessary, therefore, for the earthly representations of the heavenly realities to be purified by these sacrifices, but the heavenly realities themselves require far greater sacrifices than these.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For Christ did not enter into holy places made by human hands, which are merely representations of the true ones, but into heaven itself, where he now appears in the presence of God on our behalf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nor does it mean that he should repeatedly offer himself, as the high priest enters the Most Holy Place every year with the blood of others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if that were the case, he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the creation of the world. But now, at the culmination of the ages, he has appeared once for all to remove sin by offering himself as a sacrifice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as it is destined for all people to die once, and after that comes the judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Christ was offered once to take upon himself the sins of many; and to those who eagerly await him, he will appear a second time, not to deal with sin, but to bring salvation.</span></p>






</body></html>