<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 31</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sqxxeb.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:22ab765a-304b-2fac-5510-4efc28d699bc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 31</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, declares the LORD, I will be the God of all the families of Israel, and they will be my people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "The people who survived the sword found favor in the wilderness—yes, Israel, when I led them to a place of rest."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD appeared to me long ago, declaring, "Indeed, I have loved you with an eternal love; therefore, I have drawn you to myself with unfailing compassion."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more I will rebuild you, and you will be restored, O virgin Israel. You will again be adorned with your tambourines and go out to dance with those who celebrate joyfully.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will once again plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria; those who plant them will tend them and enjoy their fruit as an ordinary blessing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For there will come a time when the watchmen on the hills of Ephraim will call out, “Rise up, and let us go to Zion, to the LORD our God.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD says: Rejoice with joy for Jacob, and raise your voices in celebration among the foremost nations. Proclaim it, give praise, and declare, "O LORD, save your people, the remnant of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will bring them back from the northern lands and gather them from the farthest corners of the earth. Among them will be the blind and the lame, pregnant women and those in labor—all together. A vast multitude will return here.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will return with tears of repentance, and with heartfelt prayers I will guide them. I will lead them beside streams of water, on a level path where they will not falter. For I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my cherished firstborn.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to the word of the LORD, all you nations, and proclaim it in the distant coastlands, saying: "The one who scattered Israel will gather them again and watch over them, just as a shepherd tends to his flock."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD has redeemed Jacob and rescued him from the power of one stronger than he.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, they will come and sing with joy on the heights of Zion, and they will gather together to celebrate the abundant blessings of the LORD—for grain, for wine, for oil, and for the young of the flocks and herds. Their lives will be like a well-watered garden, flourishing and full of vitality, and they will never again experience sorrow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the young woman will rejoice in the dance, and the young men and the elders together will celebrate. For I will transform their grief into gladness, bring them comfort, and turn their sorrow into joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares: "I will fill the priests' hearts with abundance, and my people will be fully satisfied with my goodness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: A voice is heard in Ramah, mourning and bitter weeping. Rachel is weeping for her children; she refuses to be comforted for her children, because they are no more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "Hold back your voice from weeping and your eyes from tears, for your labor will be rewarded," declares the LORD. "They will return from the land of the enemy."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There is hope for your future, declares the LORD, for your children will return to their own land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have indeed heard Ephraim lamenting, saying: "You disciplined me, and I was disciplined like an untrained young bull. Restore me, and I will return, for you are the LORD my God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, after I turned back, I repented; and after I was corrected, I struck my thigh in grief. I was ashamed, yes, even deeply humiliated, because I bore the disgrace of my earlier sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is Ephraim not my beloved son? Is he not a cherished child? For even though I have spoken against him, I deeply remember him still. My heart yearns for him; I will surely show him compassion, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Set up markers to guide your way, and build tall signposts to show the path. Focus your heart on the main road—the way you once traveled. Return, O virgin of Israel, return to these cities of yours.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How long will you wander aimlessly, O unfaithful daughter? For the LORD has done something extraordinary in the land: a woman will protect and surround a man.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Once again, this saying will be spoken in the land of Judah and in its cities when I restore their fortunes: "May the LORD bless you, O dwelling of righteousness, O holy mountain."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And in Judah itself, and in all its cities together, there will reside farmers and those who tend flocks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I have fully satisfied the weary soul, and I have restored every grieving soul to fullness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I awoke, I looked around, and my sleep had been refreshing to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, the time is coming, declares the LORD, when I will plant the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the offspring of people and the offspring of animals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: Just as I have watched over them to uproot, tear down, overthrow, destroy, and bring disaster, so I will watch over them to build and to plant, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those days, people will no longer say, "The parents have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each person will bear the consequences of their own wrongdoing; every individual who consumes the bitter fruit of sin will suffer its effects.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, the time is coming, declares the LORD, when I will establish a new covenant with the people of Israel and with the people of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is not like the covenant I made with their ancestors when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt—a covenant that they broke, even though I was a faithful husband to them, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the covenant I will establish with the house of Israel after those days, declares the LORD: I will place my law within them and inscribe it on their hearts. I will be their God, and they will be my people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People will no longer need to teach one another, saying, "Know the LORD," because everyone, from the least to the greatest, will already know me, declares the LORD. For I will forgive their wrongdoing and will no longer remember their sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says, who gives the sun to shine by day and establishes the moon and stars to give light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar—the LORD Almighty is his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord declares: If these established decrees ever cease to exist in my presence, then the descendants of Israel will also no longer remain a nation before me forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: If the heavens above can be measured and the foundations of the earth below can be fully explored, then I will reject all the descendants of Israel because of everything they have done, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, the time is coming, declares the LORD, when the city will be rebuilt for the LORD, stretching from the tower of Hananeel to the Corner Gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The measuring line will continue to extend straight ahead to the hill of Gareb and then turn toward Goath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire valley where the dead bodies and ashes lie, along with all the fields stretching to the Kidron Brook, up to the corner of the Horse Gate on the east side, will be set apart as holy to the LORD. This place will never again be uprooted or destroyed; it will remain sacred forever.</span></p>






</body></html>