<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sr1348.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e7c4a085-92de-73b6-dd0e-d9955da3f6da" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jabin, the king of Hazor, heard about these events, he sent messengers to Jobab, the king of Madon, as well as to the kings of Shimron and Achshaph.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to the kings who ruled in the northern hill country, in the lowlands south of Chinneroth, in the valley, and in the regions of Dor to the west,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to the Canaanites in the east and the west, and to the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, and the Jebusites in the hill country, as well as to the Hivites who dwell below Mount Hermon in the region of Mizpah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They set out, along with all their armies—a vast multitude, as numerous as the grains of sand on the seashore—accompanied by a great number of horses and chariots.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all these kings had gathered together, they came and camped near the waters of Merom to wage war against Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Joshua, "Do not be afraid of them, for by this time tomorrow I will hand them over to you, all of them slain before Israel. You are to hamstring their horses and burn their chariots with fire."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joshua advanced, along with all the warriors under his command, and they launched a surprise attack against them by the waters of Merom. They swiftly descended upon them and struck them down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD gave them over into the hands of Israel, who struck them down and pursued them as far as Greater Sidon, Misrephoth-maim, and the valley of Mizpeh to the east. They defeated them completely, leaving no survivors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua carried out the command of the LORD exactly as he had been instructed: he hamstrung their horses and burned their chariots with fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, Joshua turned back and captured Hazor, striking down its king with the sword. For Hazor had formerly been the leading city of all those kingdoms.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They struck down every person in the city with the sword, completely destroying them. No one was left alive. Then they set Hazor on fire and burned it to the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua captured all the cities of those kings and their rulers. He struck them down with the sword and completely destroyed them, just as Moses, the servant of the LORD, had commanded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, concerning the cities that remained strong and fortified, Israel did not burn any of them, except for Hazor alone; Joshua was the one who burned it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites took all the plunder from these cities, including the livestock, as their own. However, they struck down every person with the sword, leaving no one alive. They completely destroyed them, sparing no one who could breathe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as the LORD had instructed Moses, his servant, Moses in turn directed Joshua, and Joshua carried out everything exactly as commanded. He did not neglect any part of what the LORD had instructed through Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joshua conquered the entire region—the hill country, the entire southern territory, all the land of Goshen, the western foothills, the Jordan Valley, the mountains of Israel, and their surrounding lowlands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Mount Halak, which rises toward Seir, all the way to Baal-gad in the Valley of Lebanon below Mount Hermon, he captured all their kings, struck them down, and put them to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua waged war for an extended period against all those kings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No city made peace with the Israelites except the Hivites, who lived in Gibeon. All the others were conquered through battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For it was the LORD’s purpose to harden their hearts, so that they would engage Israel in battle, in order to completely destroy them without showing them any mercy. This was done just as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, Joshua came and completely eliminated the Anakim from the hill country—from Hebron, Debir, Anab, and all the highlands of Judah and Israel. Joshua utterly destroyed them, along with their cities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the land belonging to the Israelites, none of the Anakim remained, except in Gaza, Gath, and Ashdod, where some still stayed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua conquered the entire land, just as the LORD had promised Moses. He then distributed it as an inheritance to Israel, assigning portions according to their tribal divisions. After this, the land experienced peace, free from the turmoil of war.</span></p>






</body></html>