<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 28</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sr1t2t.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4c613e0d-794d-8dd5-bd97-b5cb4bd5685b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 28</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of the LORD came to me once more, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, speak to the ruler of Tyre and tell him this: This is what the Lord GOD says: Because your heart has become proud, and you have declared, ‘I am a god; I sit on the throne of a god, in the heart of the seas,’ yet you are only a mortal, not a god, though you imagine yourself to have the mind of a god."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, you are wiser than Daniel; no mystery is hidden from you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By your wisdom and understanding, you have acquired wealth for yourself, gathering gold and silver into your treasuries.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through your vast wisdom and your trading, you have greatly increased your wealth, and your heart has become proud because of your riches.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: Because you have made your heart like the heart of God—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will bring foreigners against you, the most ruthless of nations, and they will draw their swords against the splendor of your wisdom. They will defile your radiance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will bring you down to the grave, and you will perish like those who are killed in the heart of the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Will you still declare before the one who kills you, "I am a god"? Yet you will be nothing more than a mortal, not a god, in the hands of the one who takes your life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will die the death of the uncircumcised, slain by the hand of foreigners, for I have declared it, says the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the message of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, compose a lament for the king of Tyre and say to him, 'This is what the Lord GOD declares: You were the embodiment of perfection, filled with wisdom and flawless in beauty.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You were in Eden, the garden of God, adorned with every precious stone: carnelian, topaz, and diamond, beryl, onyx, and jasper, sapphire, emerald, and garnet, all set in gold. The craftsmanship of your tambourines and pipes was prepared within you on the day you were created.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are the anointed guardian cherub, appointed to protect; I placed you in that role. You were on God’s holy mountain, moving freely among the fiery stones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You were flawless in your ways from the day you were created until wrongdoing was discovered in you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the abundance of your trade, they have filled your midst with violence, and you have sinned. Therefore, I will cast you out as defiled from the mountain of God, and I will destroy you, O guardian cherub, from among the fiery stones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your heart became proud because of your beauty, and you corrupted your wisdom due to your splendor. I will cast you down to the ground; I will make you a spectacle before kings, so they may see you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have defiled your sanctuaries through the abundance of your sins, through the wrongdoing of your dishonest dealings. Therefore, I will bring forth a fire from within you, and it will consume you. I will reduce you to ashes on the earth in the sight of all who witness your downfall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All those among the nations who know you will be appalled at your fate. You will become an object of horror, and you will cease to exist forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, direct your attention toward Sidon and deliver a prophecy against it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And say, "This is what the Lord GOD declares: Behold, I am against you, O Sidon, and I will display my glory in your midst. Then they will know that I am the LORD when I carry out judgments against you and demonstrate my holiness through you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will bring plague upon her, and bloodshed will fill her streets. The wounded will fall within her, judged by the sword that surrounds her on every side. Then they will know that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No longer will there be a painful thorn or a hurtful brier for the house of Israel, nor for any of those around them who have treated them with contempt. Then they will know that I am the Sovereign LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: When I gather the house of Israel from the nations where they have been scattered and demonstrate my holiness through them in the sight of the nations, then they will live in the land I gave to my servant Jacob.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will live securely in the land, building houses and planting vineyards. Indeed, they will dwell in safety and confidence once I have carried out judgments against all those around them who have treated them with contempt. Then they will know that I am the LORD their God.</span></p>






</body></html>