<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 24</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sr2u6k.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e4d12620-dbb1-539c-11be-7adba70bd5f3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 24</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the LORD is making the earth desolate, laying it waste, overturning it completely, and scattering its inhabitants far and wide.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The outcome will be the same for everyone: the people and the priest, the servant and the master, the maid and her mistress, the buyer and the seller, the lender and the borrower, the one who charges interest and the one who pays it. All will face the same fate, without distinction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land will be completely desolated and utterly laid waste, for the LORD has declared this word.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The earth mourns and withers away, the world grows weak and fades, the proud and lofty people of the earth waste away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The earth has been polluted because of its inhabitants; for they have violated the laws, disregarded the statutes, and broken the eternal covenant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, the curse has consumed the earth, and those who live on it are left in ruin. Because of this, the people of the earth have been scorched, and only a small number of individuals remain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fresh wine dries up, the vine withers, and all who were once joyful now sigh in despair.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The joyful sound of tambourines has faded; the clamor of those who celebrate has come to an end; the gladness of the harp has ceased.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will not enjoy wine with singing; strong drink will taste bitter to those who consume it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The chaotic city lies in ruins; every house is sealed shut, so that no one can enter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the streets, people cry out for wine; all joy has turned to gloom, and the land's gladness has vanished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The city lies in ruins, desolate and abandoned, and its gates are shattered and destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When this occurs in the midst of the land among the people, it will be like the shaking of an olive tree, where only a few olives remain, or like the gathering of leftover grapes after the harvest is finished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will raise their voices and sing in praise of the LORD’s majesty; they will shout joyfully from the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, honor the LORD in the midst of trials, even the name of the LORD, the God of Israel, in the distant coastlands and islands of the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the farthest corners of the earth, we have heard songs of praise, giving glory to the righteous. But I said, "I am wasting away, I am wasting away! Woe is me! The deceitful have acted deceitfully; indeed, the treacherous have dealt with great treachery."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Terror, the pit, and the trap are coming upon you, O inhabitant of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: Those who run away from the terrifying noise will fall into a pit, and those who climb out of the pit will be caught in a trap. For the floodgates of heaven are opened, and the very foundations of the earth tremble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The earth is completely shattered, the earth is thoroughly broken apart, the earth is violently shaken.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The earth will stagger back and forth like a drunkard, and it will sway like a fragile hut. Its rebellion will weigh heavily upon it, and it will collapse, never to rise again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day that the LORD will bring judgment upon the armies of the exalted ones in the heavens and the rulers of the earth below.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will be gathered together like prisoners in a dungeon; they will be confined in a prison and held there for many days. After a long time, they will be brought to account.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the moon will be dismayed, and the sun will be put to shame, for the LORD of hosts will reign on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, and in the presence of His elders, He will manifest His glory.</span></p>






</body></html>