<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sr8cyq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d622375f-1012-59a9-d4b5-fbece859e4e5" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites set out from Elim, and the entire community of the people of Israel arrived at the Wilderness of Sin, located between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after they had left the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire community of the Israelites complained against Moses and Aaron while they were in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites said to them, "If only we had died by the LORD's hand in the land of Egypt, where we sat by the pots of meat and ate bread to our fill! But you have brought us out into this wilderness to let this whole community die of hunger."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD said to Moses, "Listen carefully: I will cause bread to rain down from heaven for you. The people are to go out each day and gather a specific amount, so that I may test them to see whether they will follow my instructions or not."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And this is what will happen: on the sixth day, they must prepare what they bring in, and it will be double the amount they gather each day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Aaron said to all the Israelites, "By evening, you will know that the LORD has delivered you from the land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the morning, you will witness the glory of the LORD, because He has heard your complaints against Him. But who are we, that you should direct your grumbling toward us?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said, "This will happen when the LORD provides you with meat to eat in the evening and bread to satisfy you in the morning. For the LORD has heard the complaints you are making against Him. But who are we? Your complaints are not against us, but against the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses spoke to Aaron, saying, "Tell the entire assembly of the Israelites, 'Approach the presence of the LORD, for He has heard your complaints.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Aaron was speaking to the entire assembly of the Israelites, they turned their gaze toward the wilderness, and suddenly, the glory of the LORD became visible in the cloud.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have heard the complaints of the Israelites. Speak to them and say, "In the evening you will eat meat, and in the morning you will be satisfied with bread. Then you will know that I am the LORD your God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the evening, quails came and covered the camp, and in the morning, dew settled all around the encampment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the dew had evaporated, there on the surface of the wilderness was something small and round, fine as frost on the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Israelites saw it, they said to one another, "What is this?" For they did not know what it was. Moses said to them, "This is the bread the LORD has given you to eat."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD has commanded: Each person is to gather as much as they need to eat—an omer per person, according to the number of people in your household. Each one should gather enough for those in their own tent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites did as they were instructed, and they gathered the manna—some collected more, while others collected less.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they measured it by the omer, the one who gathered much did not have too much, and the one who gathered little did not have too little. Each person gathered according to what they needed to eat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses instructed, "No one is to leave any of it until morning."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Despite Moses' instructions, they did not listen to him. Some of them kept part of it until morning, and it became infested with worms and began to rot. Moses was angry with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each morning, everyone gathered as much as they needed for their daily food. But when the sun grew hot, it melted away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the sixth day, they gathered twice as much bread—two omers for each person. Then all the leaders of the community came and reported this to Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "This is what the LORD has declared: Tomorrow is a sacred day of rest, a Sabbath dedicated to the LORD. Prepare today what you need to bake or boil, and whatever is left over, set it aside and keep it until morning."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They stored it until morning, just as Moses had commanded, and it did not spoil or produce any worms.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said, "Eat this today, for today is a Sabbath dedicated to the LORD. Today you will not find it in the field."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For six days you are to gather it, but on the seventh day, the Sabbath, there will be none to gather.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened that some of the people went out on the seventh day to gather manna, but they found none.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "How long will you continue to reject and disobey my commandments and my laws?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: Because the LORD has given you the Sabbath as a gift, He provides you on the sixth day with enough bread for two days. Each of you must stay in your place; no one is to leave their dwelling on the seventh day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the people ceased their work and rested on the seventh day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Israel named it "Manna." It resembled coriander seed, white in color, and its taste was like wafers made with honey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said, "This is what the LORD commands: Take an omer of it and keep it for future generations, so that they may see the bread with which I fed you in the wilderness when I brought you out of the land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to Aaron, "Take a jar and fill it with an omer of manna. Then place it before the LORD to be preserved for future generations."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the LORD had instructed Moses, Aaron placed it before the Testimony to be preserved as a lasting reminder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites ate manna for forty years, until they reached a settled land. They continued to eat manna until they arrived at the borders of the land of Canaan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">An omer is equal to one-tenth of an ephah.</span></p>






</body></html>