<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sr9v0u.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ea518f81-3891-8c9d-f0bb-dc3df60783ac" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, Naboth, a man from Jezreel, owned a vineyard that was located in Jezreel, near the palace of Ahab, the king of Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, "Give me your vineyard so that I may turn it into a vegetable garden, since it is close to my house. In exchange, I will give you a better vineyard than this one, or, if you prefer, I will pay you its full value in money."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Naboth replied to Ahab, "May the LORD forbid me from doing such a thing! I cannot give you the inheritance of my ancestors."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahab returned to his house sullen and deeply upset because of what Naboth the Jezreelite had said to him. Naboth had declared, "I will not give you the inheritance of my ancestors." Ahab lay down on his bed, turned his face away, and refused to eat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jezebel, his wife, approached him and said, "Why are you so deeply troubled that you refuse to eat?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to her, "Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite and said to him, 'Sell me your vineyard for money, or, if you prefer, I will give you another vineyard in exchange for it.' But he replied, 'I will not give you my vineyard.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jezebel, his wife, said to him, "Do you now rule over the kingdom of Israel? Get up, eat some food, and let your heart be cheerful. I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So she wrote letters in Ahab’s name, sealed them with his official seal, and sent them to the elders and nobles who lived in Naboth’s city alongside him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She wrote in the letters, saying, "Declare a fast and seat Naboth in a prominent place among the people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then appoint two worthless men to stand before him and testify against him, saying, "You have spoken blasphemy against God and the king." Afterward, take him out and stone him to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of his city—the elders and the prominent citizens who lived there—acted just as Jezebel had instructed them in the letters she sent. They carried out everything she had written to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They declared a time of fasting and placed Naboth in a position of prominence before the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then two wicked men came in and sat before him. These worthless men testified against Naboth in the presence of the people, saying, “Naboth has cursed God and the king.” So they took him outside the city and stoned him to death with stones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sent a message to Jezebel, saying, "Naboth has been stoned and is now dead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jezebel learned that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, she said to Ahab, "Get up and take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, the one he refused to sell to you for money. Naboth is no longer alive; he is dead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Ahab learned that Naboth had died, he got up and went down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite to claim it as his own.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Get up and go down to meet Ahab, the king of Israel, who is in Samaria. Look, he is in Naboth’s vineyard, where he has gone to take possession of it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to speak to him and say, "This is what the LORD says: Have you committed murder and then taken possession as well?" And you are to say to him, "This is what the LORD says: In the very place where the dogs licked up Naboth’s blood, dogs will lick up your blood—yes, yours."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahab said to Elijah, "Have you found me, my enemy?" Elijah replied, "I have found you, because you have given yourself over to do evil in the sight of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, I am about to bring disaster upon you. I will destroy your descendants and eliminate every male in Ahab’s family, whether they are of age or still young, and I will leave no one in Israel who belongs to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring destruction upon your household, just as I did to the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, and to the house of Baasha, the son of Ahijah. This is because you have provoked me to anger and caused Israel to sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD also spoke concerning Jezebel, saying, "The dogs will devour Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone from Ahab's family who dies in the city will be devoured by dogs, and anyone who dies in the open country will be eaten by the birds of the air.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, there was no one like Ahab, who so completely devoted himself to doing evil in the sight of the LORD, influenced by his wife Jezebel, who incited him to such actions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed utterly detestable acts by pursuing idols, doing exactly as the Amorites had done—the very people whom the LORD had driven out before the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Ahab heard these words, he tore his clothes, put on sackcloth against his skin, fasted, lay down in sackcloth, and moved about with a subdued demeanor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do you see how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Because he has humbled himself before me, I will not bring the disaster during his lifetime. However, in the days of his son, I will bring the disaster upon his household.</span></p>






</body></html>