<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srbmtn.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:46732dcd-49a4-2bb0-6033-e59839b43730" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wrongdoing of Judah is inscribed with an iron stylus, etched with a diamond tip. It is permanently engraved on the tablets of their hearts and carved into the horns of their altars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While their children continue to recall their altars and their sacred poles, set up beside the green trees on the high hills.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Oh, my mountain in the open land, I will hand over your wealth and all your treasures as plunder, and your sacred high places will be destroyed because of your sin, throughout all your territories.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you yourself will be cut off from the inheritance I gave you, and I will make you serve your enemies in a land you do not know. For you have ignited the fire of my wrath, and it will burn forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "Cursed is the one who puts their trust in mere humans, who relies on human strength, and whose heart turns away from the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he will be like a barren shrub in the desert, unable to recognize when good comes. He will dwell in the dry, desolate places of the wilderness, in a salt-ridden land where no one lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Blessed is the person who places their trust in the LORD and whose hope is firmly rooted in Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he will be like a tree planted by the water, sending out its roots by the stream. It will not fear when the heat comes, and its leaves will remain green. It will not be anxious in a time of drought, nor will it stop producing fruit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The heart is more deceitful than anything else and is utterly corrupt; who can truly understand it?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, the LORD, examine the heart and test the innermost thoughts, to give each person according to their ways and according to the results of their actions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as a partridge sits on eggs but does not hatch them, so is the one who gains wealth unjustly. In the prime of his life, he will lose it all, and in the end, he will be shown to be a fool.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A majestic and exalted throne, established from ancient times, is the dwelling place of our sanctuary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, the hope of Israel, all who abandon you will be put to shame, and those who turn away from me will have their names inscribed in the dust, for they have rejected the LORD, the source of living water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Heal me, O LORD, and I will truly be healed; rescue me, and I will truly be saved, for you are the one I praise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, they are saying to me, "Where is the word of the LORD? Let it come now!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for me, I have not rushed away from my role as a shepherd to follow you, nor have I longed for the day of disaster—you know this well. What has come from my lips has been truthful and upright in your sight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be a source of terror to me; you are my refuge in times of trouble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May those who pursue me be put to shame, but may I not be put to shame; may they be terrified, but may I not be terrified. Bring upon them the day of disaster, and utterly destroy them with a double measure of ruin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD said to me: "Go and stand at the gate where the people of Judah enter and exit, the gate used by the kings of Judah when they come in and go out. Stand also at all the gates of Jerusalem."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And say to them, "Listen to the word of the LORD, you kings of Judah, all the people of Judah, and all who live in Jerusalem and pass through these gates."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Be careful and do not carry any load on the Sabbath day or bring it through the gates of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not carry any load out of your houses on the Sabbath day, nor engage in any work. Instead, keep the Sabbath day holy, as I commanded your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they did not obey, nor did they listen attentively. Instead, they stubbornly hardened their resolve, refusing to hear or accept correction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: If you carefully listen to me, declares the LORD, and refrain from carrying any load through the gates of this city on the Sabbath day, and if you keep the Sabbath holy by not doing any work on it,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, kings and rulers will enter through the gates of this city, seated on the throne of David. They will come riding in chariots and on horses—they, along with their officials, the people of Judah, and the residents of Jerusalem. And this city will endure forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People will come from the towns of Judah, from the areas surrounding Jerusalem, from the territory of Benjamin, from the lowlands, from the hill country, and from the southern region. They will bring burnt offerings, sacrifices, grain offerings, and incense, as well as offerings of thanksgiving, to the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you refuse to listen to me and do not honor the Sabbath day by refraining from carrying burdens and entering through the gates of Jerusalem on that day, then I will set fire to its gates. That fire will consume the palaces of Jerusalem, and it will not be extinguished.</span></p>






</body></html>