<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 26</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srd3lc.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c8611ef6-a498-5905-5d01-4781fe9297e1" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 26</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the start of the reign of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this message came from the LORD, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Stand in the courtyard of the LORD’s temple and proclaim to all the people of Judah who come from their towns to worship in the LORD’s house. Speak to them every word I command you to say; do not leave out a single word.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If they are willing to listen and each one turns away from their wicked ways, then I will relent and not bring upon them the disaster I had planned because of their evil deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you shall say to them, "This is what the LORD declares: If you refuse to listen to me and to follow my law, which I have given to you,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To listen to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I sent to you—sending them diligently and persistently—but you have not listened.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I will make this temple like Shiloh, and I will turn this city into a curse for all the nations of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the priests, the prophets, and all the people listened as Jeremiah spoke these words in the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Jeremiah had finished delivering all the messages that the LORD had commanded him to speak to the people, the priests, the prophets, and all the people seized him, declaring, "You must die!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why have you prophesied in the name of the LORD, declaring, "This temple will become like Shiloh, and this city will be left desolate, without any inhabitants?" Then all the people gathered against Jeremiah in the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the leaders of Judah heard about these events, they went up from the king’s palace to the house of the LORD and took their places at the entrance of the New Gate of the LORD’s temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priests and the prophets addressed the officials and all the people, saying, "This man deserves to die, for he has prophesied against this city, as you yourselves have heard."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeremiah addressed all the officials and all the people, saying, "The LORD sent me to proclaim against this temple and this city all the words you have heard."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, change your ways and your actions now, and listen to the voice of the LORD your God. If you do this, the LORD will relent and not bring upon you the disaster He has declared against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for me, I am in your hands; do with me as you see fit and right.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But understand this clearly: if you put me to death, you will bring the guilt of innocent blood upon yourselves, upon this city, and upon all its inhabitants. For truly, the LORD has sent me to you to speak all these words directly to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the officials and all the people said to the priests and the prophets, "This man does not deserve to die, for he has spoken to us in the name of the LORD our God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then some of the elders of the land stood up and addressed the entire gathering of the people, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Micah of Moresheth prophesied during the reign of Hezekiah, king of Judah, and addressed all the people of Judah with this message: "This is what the LORD of Hosts declares: Zion will be plowed like a field, Jerusalem will be reduced to ruins, and the temple mount will become like the overgrown heights of a forest."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Did King Hezekiah of Judah and all the people of Judah actually put him to death? Did he not instead fear the LORD and earnestly seek the LORD’s favor? And did not the LORD relent from the disaster He had declared against them? By acting in such a way, we would only bring great harm upon ourselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was also a man named Urijah, the son of Shemaiah from Kirjath-jearim, who prophesied in the name of the LORD. He spoke against this city and this land, delivering the same message as Jeremiah had proclaimed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When King Jehoiakim, along with all his warriors and officials, heard these words, the king sought to kill him. But when Urijah learned of this, he became afraid, fled, and escaped to Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Jehoiakim sent a delegation to Egypt, including Elnathan son of Achbor, along with several other men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They brought Uriah back from Egypt and took him to King Jehoiakim, who had him executed with the sword. His body was then thrown into the burial place reserved for ordinary people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, supported Jeremiah, ensuring that he was not handed over to the people to be put to death.</span></p>






</body></html>