<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 24</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srdlc7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c6b38d40-2a5c-0fde-31c1-667e09de54e2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 24</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua assembled all the tribes of Israel at Shechem and summoned the elders, leaders, judges, and officials of Israel. They came together and stood in the presence of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua said to all the people, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: Long ago, your ancestors lived beyond the Euphrates River, including Terah, the father of Abraham and the father of Nahor. At that time, they worshiped other gods."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I brought your ancestor Abraham from beyond the Euphrates River and guided him through the entire land of Canaan. I made his descendants numerous and gave him Isaac.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I granted Isaac two sons, Jacob and Esau. To Esau, I gave Mount Seir as his possession, but Jacob and his descendants journeyed down to Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also sent Moses and Aaron, and I inflicted plagues upon Egypt, just as I had done in their midst. Afterward, I led you out of there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I led your ancestors out of Egypt, and you arrived at the sea. The Egyptians pursued your fathers with chariots and horsemen, chasing them all the way to the Red Sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they cried out to the LORD, He placed darkness between you and the Egyptians, then brought the sea over them, covering them completely. Your own eyes have witnessed what I accomplished in Egypt. Afterward, you remained in the wilderness for a long time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I led you into the land of the Amorites, who lived on the other side of the Jordan. They fought against you, but I delivered them into your hands, so that you could take possession of their land. I completely destroyed them before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Balak, the son of Zippor, who was the king of Moab, took action and waged war against Israel. He sent messengers to summon Balaam, the son of Beor, to come and pronounce a curse upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I refused to listen to Balaam; as a result, he continued to bless you, and I rescued you from his power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You crossed the Jordan and came to Jericho. The people of Jericho fought against you, along with the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. But I handed them over to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I sent the hornet ahead of you, which drove out the two kings of the Amorites before you. This was accomplished not by your sword or your bow, but by My power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have given you a land that you did not toil for, and cities that you did not build, yet you live in them. You eat from vineyards and olive groves that you did not plant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, revere the LORD and serve Him with complete sincerity and faithfulness. Abandon the gods your ancestors worshiped beyond the Euphrates River and in Egypt, and dedicate yourselves to serving the LORD alone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you consider it undesirable or wrong to serve the LORD, then decide today whom you will serve—whether the gods your ancestors worshiped beyond the Euphrates River or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you now live. But as for me and my household, we will serve the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people responded, saying, "Far be it from us to abandon the LORD and serve other gods!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For it is the LORD our God who brought us and our ancestors out of the land of Egypt, freeing us from slavery. He performed those great miracles before our eyes and protected us throughout our entire journey, as well as among all the nations through which we traveled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD drove out before us all the people, including the Amorites who lived in the land. Therefore, we too will serve the LORD, for He is our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua said to the people, "You are not able to serve the LORD, for He is a holy God; He is a God who demands exclusive devotion. He will not tolerate your rebellion or your sins."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you abandon the LORD and worship foreign gods, then He will turn against you, bring disaster upon you, and destroy you, even after He has shown you kindness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people replied to Joshua, "No! We will serve the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua said to the people, “You yourselves are witnesses that you have chosen the LORD to serve Him.” And they replied, “We are witnesses.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, he said, remove the foreign gods that are among you, and turn your hearts fully to the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people declared to Joshua, "We will serve the LORD our God, and we will obey His voice."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joshua established a covenant with the people on that day and gave them a decree and a regulation at Shechem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua recorded these words in the Book of the Law of God. Then he took a large stone and set it up under the oak tree near the sanctuary of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua said to all the people, "Look, this stone will serve as a witness for us, because it has heard all the words the LORD spoke to us. It will stand as a witness against you, so that you do not deny your God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joshua dismissed the people, and each one returned to his own allotted land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, Joshua son of Nun, the servant of the LORD, died at the age of one hundred and ten.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They laid him to rest within the boundary of his allotted inheritance in Timnath-serah, located in the hill country of Ephraim, on the northern side of the hill of Gaash.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Israel remained faithful to the LORD throughout the lifetime of Joshua and all the days of the elders who outlived him—those who had witnessed all the great works the LORD had done for Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bones of Joseph, which the Israelites had brought up from Egypt, were buried in Shechem, in a plot of land that Jacob had purchased from the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem, for a hundred pieces of silver. This land became the inheritance of Joseph’s descendants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Eleazar, the son of Aaron, died; they buried him on the hill that belonged to his son Phinehas, which had been given to him in the hill country of Ephraim.</span></p>






</body></html>