<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srei9c.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7b643f3f-9496-7391-999e-5d07bc372456" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Samson went to Gaza, and there he saw a prostitute and went in to be with her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Gaza were informed, saying, "Samson has come here." So they surrounded him and set an ambush for him at the city gate, lying in wait all night. They remained quiet throughout the night, saying, "At dawn, when it is light, we will kill him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson remained there until midnight. At midnight, he got up, took hold of the city gate doors, along with the two doorposts, and pulled them free, including the bar that secured them. He lifted them onto his shoulders and carried them all the way to the top of the hill that faces Hebron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After some time had passed, he fell in love with a woman in the Valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The rulers of the Philistines approached her and said, "Persuade him to reveal the source of his great strength and how we might overpower him. We want to bind and subdue him, and each of us will give you eleven hundred pieces of silver."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Delilah said to Samson, "Please tell me the secret of your great strength and how you might be bound so that you could be subdued."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson said to her, "If they bind me with seven fresh bowstrings that have not been dried, then I will become weak and be like any other man."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the rulers of the Philistines brought her seven fresh cords that had not been dried, and she tied him up with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, men were lying in wait, hiding in the room with her. She said to him, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" But he snapped the cords as easily as a thread of flax breaks when it touches the fire. So his strength remained unknown to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Delilah said to Samson, "You have deceived me and lied to me. Now, please tell me how you can be bound."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to her, "If they tie me securely with new ropes that have never been used, then I will become weak and be like any other man."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Delilah took new ropes and tied Samson with them, saying, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" Meanwhile, men were lying in wait, hidden in the room. But he snapped the ropes off his arms as if they were a thread.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Delilah said to Samson, "Up until now, you have mocked me and told me lies. Tell me how you can be bound." He replied to her, "If you weave the seven braids of my hair into the fabric on the loom."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She secured it with the pin and said to him, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" He awoke from his sleep, pulled out the pin of the loom along with the woven fabric, and left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She said to him, "How can you claim to love me when your heart is not truly with me? You have deceived me three times now and still have not revealed to me the source of your great strength."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It happened that when she persistently pressured him day after day with her words and kept urging him, his soul became so deeply troubled that he felt as though he could not bear it any longer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He confided in her completely, saying, "No razor has ever touched my head, because I have been a Nazirite dedicated to God from the time I was in my mother's womb. If my head is shaved, my strength will leave me, and I will become weak and just like any other man."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Delilah realized that Samson had revealed everything in his heart to her, she sent word to the rulers of the Philistines, saying, "Come up one more time, for he has told me all that is in his heart." So the rulers of the Philistines came to her, bringing the payment they had promised in their hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She then made him lie down with his head on her lap and summoned a man to shave off the seven braids of his hair. As she began to weaken him, his strength left him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then she said, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" He awoke from his sleep and said, "I will go out as I have done before and free myself." But he did not realize that the LORD had withdrawn from him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines captured him, gouged out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza. They bound him with bronze shackles and forced him to grind grain in the prison.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, after he had been shaved, the hair on his head began to grow back.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the rulers of the Philistines assembled to present a grand offering to Dagon, their god, and to celebrate. They declared, "Our god has delivered Samson, our enemy, into our hands."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people saw him, they praised their god, saying, "Our god has handed over our enemy to us, the one who devastated our land and killed so many of our people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people were in high spirits and feeling merry, they said, “Summon Samson so he can entertain us.” So they brought Samson out of the prison, and he performed for them. Then they positioned him between the pillars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson said to the young man who was guiding him by the hand, "Allow me to feel the pillars that support the house, so that I may lean on them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The house was filled with men and women, and all the rulers of the Philistines were present. On the roof, there were about three thousand men and women watching as Samson entertained them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson cried out to the LORD, saying, "O Sovereign LORD, I beg you, remember me and strengthen me, just this once, O God, so that I may take vengeance on the Philistines for my two eyes in this final act."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson grasped the two central pillars that supported the entire structure of the house, the ones that held it upright. He took hold of one with his right hand and the other with his left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samson said, "Let me die with the Philistines." Then he pushed with all his strength, and the temple collapsed on the rulers and all the people inside. So those he killed in his death were more than those he had killed during his life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then his brothers and all his father’s household came down, took his body, and carried it back up. They buried him in the burial place of his father Manoah, located between Zorah and Eshtaol. He had led Israel as a judge for twenty years.</span></p>






</body></html>