<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 35</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srf4hp.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:894108d0-9657-3648-2d79-45c8a243da93" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 35</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The barren wilderness and the desolate wasteland will be filled with joy because of them; the desert will celebrate and burst into bloom like a flourishing rose.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land will burst into abundant blossoms, overflowing with joy and gladness, resounding with songs of celebration. The splendor of Lebanon will be bestowed upon it, the majesty of Carmel and Sharon. They will witness the radiant glory of the LORD, the magnificent greatness of our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Strengthen the hands that are weak, and steady the knees that tremble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell those who are anxious and afraid: "Be strong, do not fear! Look, your God will come with justice, with divine retribution. He will come to save you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the eyes of those who cannot see will be opened, and the ears of those who cannot hear will be cleared. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the lame will leap like a deer, and the mute tongue will shout for joy. For waters will gush forth in the wilderness, and streams will flow in the desert.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The dry and barren land will be transformed into pools of water, and the thirsty ground will overflow with springs. In the places where wild creatures once dwelled, there will grow lush grass, reeds, and rushes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A road will be built there, a pathway, and it will be called the Way of Holiness. The unclean will not travel on it, for it will be reserved for those who walk in righteousness. Even travelers who lack wisdom will not lose their way on this road.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No lion will be there, nor will any fierce or predatory beast roam upon it; such creatures will not be found there. Instead, those who have been redeemed will walk on that path.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And those whom the LORD has redeemed will return and come to Zion with singing, crowned with eternal joy. They will find joy and gladness, while sorrow and sighing will vanish completely.</span></p>






</body></html>