<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 32</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srgtc2.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:31b2c355-86df-1146-8292-d48efe89b131" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 32</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events and the establishment of his rule, Sennacherib, king of Assyria, invaded Judah and set up camp near its fortified cities, intending to conquer them for himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had arrived and was determined to wage war against Jerusalem,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He consulted with his officials and his mighty warriors to block the springs of water that were outside the city, and they supported him in this endeavor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A large crowd gathered and blocked all the springs and the stream that flowed through the land, saying, "Why should the kings of Assyria come and find an abundance of water?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also fortified himself and repaired all the broken sections of the wall, raising it up to the height of the towers. Additionally, he constructed another outer wall and reinforced the Millo in the City of David. He also produced a great quantity of weapons, including spears and shields.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He appointed military commanders over the people and assembled them before him in the open area by the city gate. There, he encouraged them with reassuring words, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid or discouraged because of the king of Assyria or the vast army with him, for there is a greater power with us than with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They rely on human strength, but we have the LORD our God to support us and to fight our battles. The people were encouraged and found confidence in the words of Hezekiah, king of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, sent his officials to Jerusalem (while he himself, along with his entire military force, was besieging Lachish) to deliver a message to Hezekiah, the king of Judah, and to all the people of Judah who were in Jerusalem. He declared:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what Sennacherib, king of Assyria, says: What are you relying on that makes you remain in Jerusalem under siege?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is Hezekiah not misleading you, urging you to surrender yourselves to die by famine and thirst, by claiming, "The LORD our God will rescue us from the power of the king of Assyria"?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Has not this same Hezekiah removed his high places and altars, and commanded Judah and Jerusalem, saying, "You shall worship before one altar alone and burn incense upon it"?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are you not aware of what I and my ancestors have done to the people of other nations? Were the gods of those nations able to rescue their lands from my power?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Which of the gods of those nations that my ancestors completely destroyed was able to rescue their people from my power? How then can your God deliver you from my hand?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, do not let Hezekiah mislead you or persuade you in this way, and do not believe him. For no god of any nation or kingdom has been able to rescue his people from my power or from the power of my ancestors. How much less, then, will your God be able to deliver you from my hand?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his servants continued to speak even more defiantly against the LORD God and against His servant Hezekiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also wrote letters to insult the LORD, the God of Israel, and to speak against Him, saying, "Just as the gods of the nations in other lands have not been able to rescue their people from my power, so the God of Hezekiah will not be able to deliver His people from my hand."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they shouted loudly in the language of the Jews to the people of Jerusalem who were on the wall, intending to frighten them and cause them distress, so that they might seize the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They spoke against the God of Jerusalem in the same way they spoke against the gods of the peoples of the earth, which were merely the creations of human hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this reason, King Hezekiah and the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz, prayed earnestly and called out to heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD sent an angel, who struck down all the mighty warriors, the commanders, and the officers in the camp of the king of Assyria. As a result, the king returned to his own land in disgrace. When he entered the temple of his god, some of his own sons killed him there with the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, the LORD rescued Hezekiah and the people of Jerusalem from the power of Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, and from the threat of all others. He protected and guided them in every direction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many people brought offerings to the LORD in Jerusalem and gifts to Hezekiah, the king of Judah. As a result, he was held in high esteem by all the surrounding nations from that time onward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that time, Hezekiah became gravely ill, to the point of death, and he prayed to the LORD. The LORD responded to him and provided him with a sign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Hezekiah did not respond in kind to the kindness shown to him, for his heart became proud. As a result, divine anger came upon him, as well as upon Judah and Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Hezekiah humbled himself for the arrogance of his heart, both he and the people of Jerusalem, so that the Lord’s anger did not come upon them during Hezekiah’s lifetime.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah possessed immense wealth and great honor. He built storehouses for silver, gold, precious stones, spices, shields, and every kind of valuable and desirable treasure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Build storage facilities for the harvest of grain, wine, and oil, as well as enclosures for all kinds of livestock and shelters for flocks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, he granted him cities and extensive holdings of flocks and herds in great abundance, for God had bestowed upon him immense wealth and resources.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This same King Hezekiah also blocked off the upper spring of Gihon and redirected its waters, channeling them straight down to the western side of the City of David. Hezekiah succeeded in all that he undertook.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when the ambassadors from the rulers of Babylon were sent to him to inquire about the miraculous sign that had occurred in the land, God withdrew from Hezekiah to test him, so that He might reveal everything that was in his heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Hezekiah, along with his acts of faithfulness and devotion, are indeed recorded in the prophetic visions of Isaiah, the son of Amoz, and in the historical records of the kings of Judah and Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hezekiah died and was buried with his ancestors in the most prominent of the tombs belonging to the descendants of David. All of Judah and the people of Jerusalem honored him at his death. His son Manasseh succeeded him as king.</span></p>






</body></html>