<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srhjgy.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2fbdce9d-1892-2e6b-0980-63dab4360a18" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 23</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not spread false rumors or lies. Do not join with the wicked by giving dishonest testimony or supporting their wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not join with the majority to commit wrongdoing, nor should you testify in a legal case by siding with the crowd to pervert justice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not show favoritism to a poor person in a legal dispute.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you come across your enemy’s ox or donkey wandering away, you must make sure to return it to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you come across the donkey of someone who hates you, collapsed under its load, and you are inclined to leave it without assistance, you must nevertheless help the owner with it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not pervert the justice due to your poor in their legal disputes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Stay far away from falsehood, and do not put to death the innocent or the righteous, for I will not acquit the guilty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not accept a bribe, for a bribe blinds the discerning and distorts the words of the just.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not mistreat or oppress a foreigner, for you know the feelings of a stranger, since you yourselves were foreigners in the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For six years you shall plant your fields and gather their produce.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, in the seventh year, you must allow the land to rest and remain uncultivated, so that the poor among your people may eat from it. Whatever they leave behind, the wild animals of the field may consume. You are to do the same with your vineyard and your olive grove.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For six days you shall do your work, but on the seventh day you shall rest, so that your ox and your donkey may also rest, and the son of your servant, as well as the foreigner, may be refreshed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful to observe everything I have commanded you. Do not invoke the names of other gods or let them be spoken by your lips.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall celebrate a feast in my honor three times each year.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must observe the Feast of Unleavened Bread. For seven days, you are to eat unleavened bread, as I have commanded you, at the appointed time in the month of Abib, for in that month you came out of Egypt. No one is to appear before me empty-handed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall also observe the Festival of Harvest, celebrating the first produce of your labor from what you have sown in the field. Additionally, you shall keep the Festival of Ingathering at the end of the year, when you gather in the fruits of your labor from the field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Three times each year, all your men must present themselves before the Lord God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not present the blood of my offering alongside bread made with yeast; nor shall any of the fat from my offering be left until morning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must bring the very first produce of your land to the house of the LORD your God. You must not boil a young goat in its mother's milk.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I am sending an angel ahead of you to guard you along the way and to lead you to the place I have prepared for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be cautious of him, listen to his voice, and do not provoke him, for he will not forgive your wrongdoing, because my authority and essence reside within him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you truly listen to his voice and carry out all that I say, then I will oppose those who oppose you and fight against those who fight against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For my angel will go ahead of you and lead you into the land of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites; and I will completely destroy them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not bow down to their gods, nor worship them, nor follow their practices. Instead, you are to completely destroy them and thoroughly smash their sacred images.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall serve the LORD your God, and He will bless your food and your water. I will also remove illness from among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In your land, no animal will miscarry or be infertile. I will ensure that you live out the full number of your days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will send my terror ahead of you, and I will throw into confusion all the people you encounter. I will cause all your enemies to turn and flee before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will send hornets ahead of you, and they will drive out the Hivites, the Canaanites, and the Hittites from before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will not drive them out from before you in a single year, for the land would become desolate, and the wild animals would multiply and overrun you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will gradually drive them out before you, little by little, until you have grown in number and are able to take possession of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will establish your borders from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean Sea, and from the wilderness to the Euphrates River. For I will hand over the inhabitants of the land to you, and you will drive them out before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not form any agreement with them or with their gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They must not live in your land, or they will cause you to sin against me. If you worship their gods, it will certainly become a trap for you.</span></p>






</body></html>