<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 59</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sri272.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f12e0a32-35d9-a958-0f9a-49d7609fdba6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 59</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the LORD’s power is not diminished, so that He cannot save; nor is His hearing impaired, so that He cannot listen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, your wrongdoing has created a division between you and your God, and your sins have caused Him to turn His face away from you, so that He does not listen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your hands are stained with blood, and your fingers are tainted by wrongdoing. Your lips have spoken deceit, and your tongue utters wickedness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one seeks justice or pleads for truth. They rely on empty words and speak deceitfully. They devise harm and give birth to wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They hatch the eggs of venomous serpents and spin the webs of spiders. Whoever eats their eggs will die, and if one is crushed, it will burst forth into a deadly viper.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The webs they weave will not serve as clothing, nor will they be able to cover themselves with what they make. Their deeds are acts of wickedness, and their hands are filled with violence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their feet are quick to do evil, and they rush to shed innocent blood. Their minds are filled with wicked schemes; ruin and destruction mark their ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They do not know the way of peace, and there is no justice in their actions. They have made their paths crooked; whoever walks in them will never experience peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, justice is far from us, and righteousness does not reach us. We hope for light, but instead find only darkness; we look for brightness, but we walk in gloom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We feel our way along the wall like those who are blind, and we grope as though we have no sight. We stumble even at midday as if it were twilight; we are like the dead in desolate places.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We growl like bears and mourn deeply like doves. We seek justice, but it is nowhere to be found; we hope for deliverance, but it remains far from us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our wrongdoings have greatly increased before you, and our sins bear witness against us. Our transgressions are ever present with us, and we are fully aware of our iniquities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">By acting rebelliously and deceiving the LORD, and turning away from our God, we have spoken words of oppression and rebellion, conceiving and expressing lies from the depths of our hearts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Justice is pushed back, and righteousness stands at a distance, for truth has collapsed in the public square, and fairness cannot gain entry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, truth has vanished, and those who turn away from evil become targets. The Lord observed this, and it deeply troubled Him that justice was nowhere to be found.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He observed that there was no one to intervene, and he was astonished that no one stepped forward to intercede. Therefore, his own strength brought about salvation for him, and his righteousness upheld him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he clothed himself in righteousness as a breastplate, and placed the helmet of salvation upon his head. He wore the garments of vengeance as his attire and wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">According to their actions, so will He repay—wrath to His adversaries, retribution to His enemies; to the distant lands He will bring repayment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, people from the west will revere the name of the LORD, and those in the east will honor His glory. For when the enemy advances like a rushing flood, the Spirit of the LORD will raise a banner to oppose him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Redeemer will come to Zion, and to those in Jacob who turn away from their rebellion, declares the LORD. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares, "This is my covenant with them: My Spirit, which rests upon you, and my words, which I have placed in your mouth, will never leave your lips, nor the lips of your descendants, nor the lips of their descendants after them," says the LORD, "from this time forward and forevermore."</span></p>






</body></html>