<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srih9n.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c0091bbd-390b-06b9-49b2-2bfa67ff87c0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, I saw another angel descending from heaven, endowed with great authority, and the earth was illuminated by his radiant glory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he proclaimed with a powerful voice, saying, "Babylon the great has fallen, has fallen! She has become a dwelling place for demons, a stronghold for every unclean spirit, and a prison for every unclean and detestable bird."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the nations have drunk the wine of her passionate immorality, and the kings of the earth have engaged in immoral acts with her. Moreover, the merchants of the earth have grown wealthy from the excessive luxury and indulgence she provided.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I heard another voice from heaven, saying, "Come out of her, my people, so that you do not share in her sins or suffer from her plagues."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For her sins have piled up as high as heaven, and God has taken note of her wicked deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Repay her just as she has repaid you, and give her double what her deeds deserve. In the same measure she has poured out, pour back to her double.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The extent to which she has exalted herself and indulged in luxury, give her an equal measure of torment and grief. For she boasts in her heart, "I sit as a queen; I am not a widow, and I will never experience sorrow."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, her plagues will come suddenly in a single day—death, mourning, and famine—and she will be completely consumed by fire, for the Lord God who judges her is mighty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The rulers of the earth, who engaged in immoral alliances and indulged in luxury with her, will weep and mourn over her when they see the smoke rising from her destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Standing at a distance, terrified by her suffering, they cried out, "Woe, woe to that great city, Babylon, that mighty city! For in a single hour your judgment has come."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the merchants of the earth will weep and grieve over her, for no one will buy their goods anymore.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The trade in gold, silver, precious stones, pearls, fine linen, purple cloth, silk, scarlet fabric, all kinds of scented wood, every article made of ivory, every article crafted from costly wood, bronze, iron, and marble—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And cinnamon, and fragrant spices, and perfumed oils, and frankincense, and wine, and olive oil, and fine flour, and wheat, and cattle, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and enslaved people, and even human lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The luxuries and pleasures that your soul once craved have vanished from you. All the exquisite and splendid things you once enjoyed are gone, and you will never find them again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The merchants who grew wealthy from trading these goods will stand at a distance, terrified by the severity of her suffering. They will weep and mourn in anguish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they cried out, "Woe, woe to that great city, which was adorned in fine linen, purple, and scarlet, and embellished with gold, precious stones, and pearls!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For in just one hour, such immense wealth has been completely destroyed. Every ship captain, all the crew on the ships, the sailors, and all who make their living by sea stood at a distance,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they wept aloud when they saw the smoke rising from her destruction, exclaiming, "What city can compare to this great and mighty city!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They threw dust on their heads and cried out, weeping and mourning, saying, "Oh no, oh no, that great city, where all who had ships on the sea grew wealthy because of her prosperity! For in just one hour, she has been utterly devastated."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Celebrate and rejoice, O heaven, and you holy apostles and prophets, for God has executed judgment on her and avenged you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a powerful angel picked up a stone resembling a massive millstone and hurled it into the sea, declaring, "In this violent manner, the great city of Babylon will be utterly overthrown, and it will never be found again."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sound of harpists, musicians, flute players, and trumpeters will never be heard in you again. No skilled worker, no matter their craft, will ever be found in you again. The noise of the grinding mill will never be heard in you again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The light of a lamp will never shine in you again, and the voices of the bridegroom and the bride will never be heard in you again. For your merchants were the most powerful figures in the world, and all nations were led astray by your deceptive practices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100031018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And within her was discovered the blood of prophets, of holy ones, and of all those who were killed on the earth.</span></p>






</body></html>