<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srij36.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a725ea09-f48b-b34e-5cad-d182740e7170" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the vision of Isaiah, son of Amoz, which he received concerning Judah and Jerusalem during the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, heavens, and pay attention, earth: for the LORD has spoken, "I have raised and cared for children, yet they have rebelled against me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ox recognizes its owner, and the donkey knows where its master provides food; but Israel does not understand, my people do not take notice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Oh, sinful nation, a people weighed down by guilt, offspring of wrongdoers, children who bring ruin! They have abandoned the LORD, they have angered the Holy One of Israel, and they have turned away from Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why should you be punished any further? You only continue to rebel more and more. Your entire being is afflicted—your head is overwhelmed with sickness, and your heart is utterly weak and failing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the bottom of the foot to the top of the head, there is no part of the body that is healthy—only wounds, bruises, and festering sores. These injuries have not been cleansed, bandaged, or soothed with healing ointment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your nation lies in ruins, your cities are consumed by fire. Foreigners devour your land right before your eyes, leaving it desolate, as if devastated by invaders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The daughter of Zion is left like a shelter in a vineyard, like a watchman’s hut in a cucumber field, like a city under siege.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the LORD of hosts had not preserved for us a small surviving group, we would have been utterly destroyed like Sodom and reduced to nothing like Gomorrah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to the word of the LORD, you leaders of Sodom; pay attention to the instruction of our God, you people of Gomorrah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What is the purpose of all your many sacrifices to me? says the LORD. I have had enough of your burnt offerings of rams and the fat of well-fed animals. I take no pleasure in the blood of bulls, lambs, or goats.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you come to present yourselves before me, who has demanded this from you—that you should walk in my courts?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Stop bringing me meaningless offerings; your incense is detestable to me. Your celebrations of new moons, your Sabbath gatherings, and your solemn assemblies—I cannot endure them. They have become a burden to me; I am weary of bearing them. Your worship is tainted with wrongdoing; even your most sacred meetings are filled with sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your new moon celebrations and your appointed festivals are detestable to me; they have become a burden to my soul. I am weary of enduring them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you stretch out your hands in prayer, I will turn my eyes away from you. Even though you offer many prayers, I will not listen, for your hands are stained with blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Cleanse yourselves and purify your lives; remove the wickedness of your actions from my sight. Stop doing what is evil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Strive to do what is good; pursue justice, defend the oppressed, uphold the rights of the fatherless, and advocate for the widow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Come now, let us discuss this together," says the LORD. "Even if your sins are as deep as scarlet, they will become as white as snow; even if they are as red as crimson, they will be like pure wool."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you are willing and obedient, you will enjoy the abundance of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you refuse to obey and choose to rebel, you will be consumed by the sword, for the mouth of the LORD has declared it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How the faithful city has turned into a prostitute! Once it was filled with justice; righteousness made its home there—but now it is overrun with murderers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your silver has turned to worthless slag, and your wine has been diluted with water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your leaders are defiant and associate with thieves. They all crave bribes and pursue dishonest gain. They fail to defend the rights of the fatherless, and the plight of the widow never reaches their attention.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the Lord, the LORD of hosts, the mighty One of Israel, declares: "Indeed, I will relieve Myself of My adversaries and take vengeance on My enemies."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will direct my attention to you and thoroughly refine you, removing all your impurities and stripping away everything that is worthless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will restore your judges as they were in former times, and your counselors as they were at the beginning. Afterward, you will be called the City of Righteousness, the Faithful City.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zion will be redeemed through justice, and those who return to her will be restored through righteousness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ruin of the wicked and the sinners will come at the same time, and those who abandon the LORD will be utterly destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be disgraced because of the sacred trees you have desired, and you will be humiliated by the gardens you have chosen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you will become like an oak tree whose leaves wither and fall, and like a garden that lacks water and dries up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The mighty will become like dry tinder, and their deeds like a spark; both will burn together, with no one to extinguish them.</span></p>






</body></html>