<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 30</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srk2ro.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7ff42388-8e67-39fd-1237-f1686dc6f2f3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 30</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses addressed the leaders of the tribes of Israel, saying, "This is what the LORD has commanded: ..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone makes a vow to the LORD or swears an oath to bind themselves with a solemn promise, they must not break their word. They must fulfill everything that has come from their mouth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a woman makes a vow to the LORD or binds herself by a pledge while she is still young and living in her father's household,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If her father hears her vow or the pledge by which she has bound herself, and he remains silent and does not object, then all her vows shall remain valid, and every pledge by which she has bound herself shall stand firm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if her father overrules her on the day he hears about it, none of her vows or the obligations she has bound herself to will remain valid. The Lord will forgive her because her father has overruled her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a woman is married when she makes a vow or speaks a binding promise with her lips that obligates her soul,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If her husband hears about her vow or pledge and says nothing to her on the day he learns of it, then her vows will remain valid, and the obligations she has bound herself to will stand firm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if her husband nullifies her vow on the day he hears about it, then the vow she made, along with the pledge she spoke that bound her, will become invalid. The Lord will release her from it, and she will be forgiven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, every vow made by a widow or a divorced woman, by which she has bound herself, shall remain valid and binding upon her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a woman makes a vow while living in her husband’s household, or binds herself by a solemn pledge with an oath,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If her husband hears about her vow or pledge and says nothing to object or forbid it, then all her vows and any obligations she has bound herself to will remain valid.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if her husband nullifies them on the day he hears about them, then whatever she has declared concerning her vows or the obligations binding her soul will no longer be valid. Her husband has annulled them, and the LORD will release her from responsibility.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every vow or solemn pledge to humble oneself, the husband may confirm it, or the husband may nullify it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if her husband remains completely silent toward her from day to day, then he confirms all her vows or all her obligations that are upon her. He upholds them because he remained silent toward her on the day he heard them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if he nullifies them in any way after he has heard them, then he will bear the guilt for her wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the regulations that the LORD commanded Moses concerning the relationship between a man and his wife, and between a father and his daughter while she is still young and living in her father’s household.</span></p>






</body></html>