<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srlnbx.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b10fbca5-0eb5-3ca2-4107-baaecde61aaa" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell the Israelites to turn back and set up camp near Pi-hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea, opposite Baal-zephon. You are to camp there by the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For Pharaoh will say concerning the Israelites, "They are trapped in the land; the wilderness has closed in on them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will cause Pharaoh's heart to become stubborn, so that he will pursue them. In doing so, I will demonstrate my power and glory through Pharaoh and his entire army, so that the Egyptians will recognize that I am the LORD. And they did as they were instructed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Egypt was informed that the people had fled. Then Pharaoh and his officials had a change of heart toward the people, and they said, "What have we done? Why have we allowed Israel to leave and stop serving us?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He prepared his chariot and gathered his people to accompany him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He gathered six hundred of the finest chariots, along with all the other chariots of Egypt, each one under the command of its own officer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD caused Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to become stubborn, and he pursued the Israelites as they were leaving. Meanwhile, the Israelites marched out boldly and confidently.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Egyptians pursued them, with all of Pharaoh’s horses, chariots, horsemen, and his entire army. They caught up with the Israelites as they were camped by the sea, near Pi-hahiroth, opposite Baal-zephon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Pharaoh and his forces approached, the Israelites looked up and saw the Egyptians advancing toward them. Overwhelmed with fear, the Israelites cried out to the LORD for help.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people said to Moses, "Was it because there were no graves in Egypt that you brought us out here to die in the wilderness? Why have you treated us this way, leading us out of Egypt?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is this not what we told you back in Egypt when we said, ‘Leave us alone, so we can continue serving the Egyptians’? It would have been better for us to remain as servants to the Egyptians than to die here in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to the people, "Do not be afraid. Stand firm and witness the deliverance the LORD will bring for you today. For the Egyptians you see today, you will never see them again."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will fight on your behalf, and you need only remain silent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Why are you crying out to me? Tell the Israelites to move forward."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But raise your staff and extend your hand over the sea, and split it apart, so that the Israelites may pass through the middle of the sea on dry ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will cause the hearts of the Egyptians to become stubborn, and they will pursue the Israelites. In doing so, I will demonstrate my power and glory through Pharaoh, his entire army, his chariots, and his horsemen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Egyptians will come to understand that I am the LORD when I demonstrate my power and greatness through Pharaoh, his chariots, and his horsemen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel of God, who had been leading the camp of Israel, moved from the front and positioned himself behind them. Likewise, the pillar of cloud that had been ahead of them shifted and took its place at their rear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cloud positioned itself between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel. To the Egyptians, it brought darkness and obscurity, but to the Israelites, it provided light throughout the night. As a result, neither side approached the other during the entire night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses extended his hand over the sea, and the LORD drove the sea back with a powerful east wind throughout the night. He turned the sea into dry ground, and the waters were split apart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites walked through the middle of the sea on dry ground, with the waters forming a wall on their right and on their left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Egyptians pursued them and followed them into the middle of the sea—all of Pharaoh’s horses, his chariots, and his horsemen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the early hours of the morning, during the night watch, the LORD looked down upon the Egyptian army from within the pillar of fire and cloud, and He threw their forces into confusion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He caused their chariot wheels to become stuck, so that they could barely move. Then the Egyptians said, "Let us flee from the Israelites, for the LORD is fighting for them against us!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Reach out your hand over the sea, so that the waters may flow back over the Egyptians, their chariots, and their horsemen."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and at daybreak, the sea returned to its full force. The Egyptians tried to flee from it, but the LORD threw the Egyptians into the midst of the sea, overwhelming them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The waters rushed back and engulfed the chariots, the horsemen, and the entire army of Pharaoh that had pursued them into the sea. Not a single one of them survived.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the Israelites walked on dry ground through the middle of the sea, with the waters forming a wall on their right and on their left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the LORD delivered Israel from the power of the Egyptians. The Israelites saw the bodies of the Egyptians lying lifeless on the shore of the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites witnessed the mighty act that the LORD performed against the Egyptians. As a result, the people stood in awe of the LORD, put their trust in Him, and also in His servant Moses.</span></p>






</body></html>