<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jonah Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srpwka.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ad2c107d-ffc2-3377-b1ad-8546bc79d27a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jonah Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of the LORD came to Jonah, the son of Amittai, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Get up and go to Nineveh, that large and important city, and proclaim a message of judgment against it, for their evil deeds have risen up before me and demand my attention."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jonah got up to flee to Tarshish, away from the presence of the LORD. He went down to Joppa and found a ship bound for Tarshish. He paid the fare, boarded the ship, and set out with them to Tarshish, seeking to escape from the presence of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the LORD caused a powerful wind to sweep over the sea, and a violent storm arose, so severe that the ship was in danger of being torn apart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sailors became terrified, and each one cried out to his own god. They began throwing the cargo from the ship into the sea to lighten the load. Meanwhile, Jonah had gone down into the innermost part of the ship, where he lay down and fell into a deep sleep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The captain approached him and said, "Why are you sleeping? Get up and call on your God! Perhaps your God will take notice of us, so that we do not perish."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they said to one another, "Come, let us cast lots to determine who is responsible for this calamity that has come upon us." So they cast lots, and the lot fell to Jonah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they said to him, "Please tell us, why has this disaster come upon us? What is your occupation? Where do you come from? What is your country? And to which people do you belong?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "I am a Hebrew, and I worship the LORD, the God of heaven, who created the sea and the dry land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the men were filled with great fear and said to him, "Why have you done this?" For they knew that he was fleeing from the presence of the LORD, because he had told them so.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they said to him, "What should we do to you so that the sea will become calm for us? For the sea is raging and stormy."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "Pick me up and throw me into the sea, and the sea will become calm for you. For I know that this violent storm has come upon you because of me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the men rowed with all their strength to bring the ship to land, but they were unable to do so, for the sea grew increasingly violent and raged against them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, they cried out to the LORD and said, "We beg you, O LORD, we beg you, do not let us perish because of this man’s life, and do not hold us accountable for innocent blood. For you, O LORD, have done as you pleased."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they lifted Jonah and threw him into the sea, and the sea immediately stopped its raging.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the men were filled with a profound reverence for the LORD, and they presented a sacrifice to Him and made solemn promises.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD had appointed a large fish to swallow Jonah. Jonah remained inside the fish's belly for three days and three nights. </span></p>






</body></html>