<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Esther Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srr19p.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7f620465-b1ed-7f78-6983-7542c6d26793" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Esther Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the reign of Ahasuerus—the same Ahasuerus who ruled over a vast empire stretching from India to Ethiopia, encompassing one hundred and twenty-seven provinces—the following events took place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that time, when King Ahasuerus ruled from his royal throne in the palace at Susa,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the third year of his reign, he hosted a grand banquet for all his officials and servants. The leaders of Persia and Media, along with the nobles and governors of the provinces, were present before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he displayed the wealth of his magnificent kingdom and the splendor of his majestic greatness for many days—specifically, one hundred and eighty days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When these days came to an end, the king held a feast for all the people who were present in Susa, the royal capital, both the prominent and the humble. The celebration lasted seven days and took place in the courtyard of the garden of the king’s palace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The space was adorned with white, green, and blue hangings, secured with cords of fine linen and purple fabric to silver rings attached to marble pillars. The couches were made of gold and silver, resting on a mosaic floor of red, blue, white, and black marble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They served them drinks in golden cups, each one uniquely crafted, and provided an abundance of the finest royal wine, in keeping with the king's wealth and generosity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The drinking followed the established custom, with no one being forced to drink, for the king had instructed all the officials of his household to let each person drink as they pleased.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Queen Vashti also hosted a banquet for the women in the royal palace that belonged to King Ahasuerus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day, when the king’s heart was cheerful from the wine, he ordered Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, Abagtha, Zethar, and Carcas—the seven eunuchs who served in the presence of King Ahasuerus—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To summon Queen Vashti to appear before the king, wearing her royal crown, in order to display her beauty to the people and the officials, for she was indeed very beautiful.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Queen Vashti refused to obey the king’s command delivered through his officials. As a result, the king became furious, and his anger burned within him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king addressed the wise men who understood the times and seasons (for it was the king’s custom to consult all who were knowledgeable in matters of law and justice):</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Next to him were Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan—the seven highest officials of Persia and Media. These men had direct access to the king and held the most prominent positions in the kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What should we do with Queen Vashti according to the law, since she has not obeyed the command of King Ahasuerus delivered through his officials?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Memucan responded to the king and the officials, saying, "Queen Vashti has not only wronged the king but also all the officials and all the people living in every province of King Ahasuerus's realm."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the queen's actions, this matter will become known to all women, causing them to look down on their husbands when they hear it said, "King Ahasuerus ordered Queen Vashti to appear before him, but she refused to come."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The noblewomen of Persia and Media will also speak in this manner today to all the king’s officials who have heard about the queen’s actions. As a result, there will be widespread disrespect and anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If it pleases the king, let a royal decree be issued and recorded in the laws of the Persians and Medes, which cannot be changed, stating that Vashti is never to appear before King Ahasuerus again. Furthermore, let the king transfer her royal position to another woman who is more deserving than she.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the king’s decree, which he will issue, is proclaimed throughout his vast empire, all wives will show respect to their husbands, both to the important and the humble alike.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king and his officials found this proposal to be good, and the king acted in accordance with Memucan’s advice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he dispatched letters to all the provinces of the king, to each province in its own script and to every people in their own language, declaring that every man should have authority in his own household, and that this decree should be proclaimed in the language of each people.</span></p>






</body></html>