<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srtvv0.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f0ea16d3-cc6a-27d2-de8a-4ddd35e6ab0b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, Ahithophel said to Absalom, "Allow me to select twelve thousand men, and I will set out tonight to pursue David."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will attack him when he is exhausted and discouraged, and I will strike fear into him. All the people with him will flee, and I will strike down only the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring all the people back to you. The man you are seeking will be as though everyone has returned, and all the people will live in peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The proposal pleased Absalom greatly, as well as all the elders of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Absalom said, "Summon Hushai the Archite as well, so we may also hear what he has to say."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Hushai arrived to meet Absalom, Absalom said to him, "Ahithophel has given this advice. Should we follow his counsel? If not, then you speak and tell us what we should do."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Hushai said to Absalom, "The advice that Ahithophel has given is not wise for this situation."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hushai replied, "You know your father and his men—they are mighty warriors, and their spirits are enraged, like a bear robbed of her cubs in the open field. Moreover, your father is a seasoned fighter and will not stay with the troops overnight."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, he is now hiding in some pit or another place. When some of them are struck down at the beginning, whoever hears about it will say, “There has been a massacre among the people who follow Absalom.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even the bravest warrior, whose heart is as courageous as a lion’s, will lose all strength and melt in fear. For all Israel knows that your father is a mighty man, and those who fight alongside him are valiant warriors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I advise that all Israel be gathered to you, from Dan to Beersheba, as numerous as the sand by the sea, and that you personally lead them into battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We will find him in a place where he can be discovered, and we will descend upon him as the dew settles on the ground. Not one of his men, nor even he himself, will survive; all of them will be completely destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, if he retreats into a city, then all Israel shall bring ropes to that city, and we will drag it into the river until not even a single small stone remains there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Absalom and all the men of Israel declared, "The advice of Hushai the Archite is better than the advice of Ahithophel." This was because the LORD had determined to thwart the wise counsel of Ahithophel, so that the LORD might bring disaster upon Absalom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Hushai said to Zadok and Abiathar, the priests, "This is what Ahithophel advised Absalom and the elders of Israel, and this is the counsel I have given."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, send word quickly to David and say, "Do not stay tonight in the wilderness plains, but cross over immediately. Otherwise, the king and all the people with him may be destroyed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan and Ahimaaz were staying at En-rogel, as they could not risk being seen entering the city. A servant girl went to inform them, and they in turn went to deliver the message to King David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, a young man saw them and reported it to Absalom. But the two men quickly fled and came to a house in Bahurim, where there was a well in the courtyard. They went down into it to hide.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman took a covering and spread it over the opening of the well, then scattered ground grain on top of it. As a result, no one discovered what had happened.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Absalom’s men arrived at the woman’s house, they asked, “Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan?” The woman replied, “They have already crossed the stream.” After searching for them and failing to find them, the men returned to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had left, the men came up out of the well and went to inform King David. They said to him, "Rise up and cross the water quickly, for this is the advice Ahithophel has given against you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David got up, along with all the people who were with him, and they crossed the Jordan River. By the time morning came, not a single one of them remained on the other side—they had all crossed over the Jordan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Ahithophel realized that his advice had not been followed, he saddled his donkey, set out, and returned to his home in his city. There, he put his household affairs in order, then hanged himself and died. He was buried in his father’s tomb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David arrived at Mahanaim. Meanwhile, Absalom crossed the Jordan River, accompanied by all the men of Israel who were with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Absalom appointed Amasa as commander of the army in place of Joab. Amasa was the son of a man named Ithra, an Israelite, who had married Abigail, the daughter of Nahash and sister of Zeruiah, who was Joab’s mother.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Israel and Absalom set up their camp in the land of Gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David arrived at Mahanaim, Shobi the son of Nahash from Rabbah of the Ammonites, Machir the son of Ammiel from Lo-debar, and Barzillai the Gileadite from Rogelim came to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They brought beds, bowls, clay pots, wheat, barley, flour, roasted grain, beans, lentils, and roasted chickpeas.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They brought honey, butter, sheep, and cheese from the cattle for David and the people with him to eat, for they said, "The people are hungry, exhausted, and thirsty in the wilderness."</span></p>






</body></html>