<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srurd3.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5c783ee0-f7ac-bba6-c893-f78ae4d82474" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008261"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the turn of the year, during the season when kings typically go out to war, David sent Joab, along with his servants and the entire army of Israel. They attacked and defeated the Ammonites and laid siege to Rabbah. However, David remained in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008262"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One evening, David got up from his bed and walked on the roof of the king’s palace. From there, he saw a woman bathing, and she was very beautiful in appearance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008263"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David sent messengers to inquire about the woman. Someone told him, "Isn’t this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam and the wife of Uriah the Hittite?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008264"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David sent messengers and brought her to him. She came to him, and he slept with her, for she had already been purified from her ritual impurity. Afterward, she returned to her home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008265"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman became pregnant and sent word to David, saying, "I am pregnant."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008266"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David sent a message to Joab, saying, "Send me Uriah the Hittite." So Joab sent Uriah to David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008267"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Uriah arrived, David asked him how Joab was doing, how the troops were faring, and how the war was progressing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008268"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Uriah, "Go down to your house and refresh yourself." So Uriah left the king’s palace, and a gift of food from the king was sent after him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008269"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Uriah stayed at the entrance of the king’s palace, sleeping among the servants of his lord, and did not go down to his own house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008270"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they informed David, saying, "Uriah did not go down to his house," David said to Uriah, "Did you not just return from your journey? Why then did you not go down to your house?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008271"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Uriah replied to David, "The ark of God, along with Israel and Judah, are staying in temporary shelters, and my commander Joab and the troops under his command are camped in the open fields. How could I go to my house to eat, drink, and sleep with my wife? As surely as you live and as your soul lives, I will not do such a thing."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008272"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Uriah, "Stay here today as well, and tomorrow I will allow you to leave." So Uriah remained in Jerusalem that day and the next.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008273"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David summoned him, he came and ate and drank in David's presence. David made him drunk, and in the evening, he went out to lie down on his bed among his lord's servants. However, he did not return to his own house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008274"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the morning, David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it with Uriah to deliver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008275"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He wrote in the letter, saying, "Place Uriah at the front of the fiercest battle, and then withdraw from him, so that he may be struck down and die."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008276"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Joab surveyed the city, he positioned Uriah in a location where he knew the most skilled and courageous warriors would be.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008277"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of the city came out and engaged in battle with Joab. During the fighting, some of David’s soldiers were killed, and Uriah the Hittite also died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008278"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joab sent a message to David, reporting all the details about the battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008279"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he instructed the messenger, saying, "When you have finished reporting the details of the battle to the king,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008280"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If it happens that the king becomes angry and says to you, "Why did you come so close to the city during the battle? Did you not realize they would shoot at you from the wall?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who struck down Abimelech, the son of Jerubbesheth? Was it not a woman who threw a millstone down on him from the wall, causing him to die at Thebez? Why did you go so close to the wall? Then you must say, ‘Your servant Uriah the Hittite is also dead.’</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008282"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the messenger went and came to David, reporting everything that Joab had instructed him to say.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The messenger said to David, "The men overpowered us and came out to meet us in the open field, but we pushed them back as far as the entrance of the city gate."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The archers on the wall shot at your servants, and some of the king’s men were killed. Your servant Uriah the Hittite is also dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David said to the messenger, "This is what you are to say to Joab: 'Do not let this matter trouble you, for the sword takes lives indiscriminately. Strengthen your attack against the city and bring it to ruin. And encourage him.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Uriah’s wife heard that her husband Uriah had died, she mourned for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After the period of mourning had ended, David sent for her and brought her to his house, and she became his wife and bore him a son. However, what David had done was deeply displeasing to the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>