<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 41</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srv9wg.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cbc65803-2f9b-1c01-d625-f3125c16f01e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 41</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the seventh month, Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah and grandson of Elishama, who was of royal descent, along with ten of the king’s officials, came to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, at Mizpah. There, they shared a meal together in Mizpah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, along with the ten men who were with him, rose up and attacked Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, with the sword and killed him. Gedaliah had been appointed governor over the land by the king of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ishmael also killed all the Jews who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah, as well as the Chaldean soldiers who were present there, and the men of war.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened on the second day after he had killed Gedaliah, though no one was aware of it,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A group of eighty men came from Shechem, Shiloh, and Samaria. They had shaved their beards, torn their clothes, and cut themselves as signs of mourning. They were carrying grain offerings and incense, intending to bring them to the house of the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, went out from Mizpah to meet them, weeping as he walked. When he encountered them, he said, "Come to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived in the center of the city, Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, killed them and threw their bodies into a pit—he and the men who were with him did this.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, ten men among them pleaded with Ishmael, saying, "Do not kill us, for we have hidden stores of wheat, barley, oil, and honey in the field." So he refrained and did not kill them along with their fellow countrymen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The pit into which Ishmael had thrown all the dead bodies of the men he had killed because of Gedaliah was the same one that King Asa had dug as a defense against Baasha, king of Israel. Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, filled it with those he had slain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Ishmael took captive all the remaining people who were in Mizpah, including the king’s daughters and everyone else who had been left there—those whom Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, had entrusted to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam. Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, seized them and took them captive, then set out to cross over to the Ammonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all the military commanders who were with him, learned about all the wicked acts that Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, had committed,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they gathered all the men and went to confront Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah. They found him near the large pool of water in Gibeon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now it happened that when all the people who were with Ishmael saw Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all the military commanders who were with him, they rejoiced.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people whom Ishmael had taken captive from Mizpah turned around and came back, and they went to Johanan, the son of Kareah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, managed to escape from Johanan along with eight of his men and fled to the Ammonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Johanan, the son of Kareah, along with all the military commanders who were with him, took charge of the remaining people whom he had rescued from Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, at Mizpah. This was after Ishmael had killed Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam. Among those rescued were the warriors, the women, the children, and the eunuchs whom Johanan had brought back from Gibeon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They left and settled in the dwelling place of Chimham, which is near Bethlehem, intending to continue their journey into Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people were afraid of the Chaldeans because Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, had killed Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, whom the king of Babylon had appointed as governor over the land. This act caused them great fear and concern.</span></p>






</body></html>