<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\srxd70.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:992a1878-9491-5c61-ecad-91a2daa22014" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the LORD your God has driven out the nations whose land the LORD your God is giving to you, and you take possession of their territory, settling in their cities and living in their houses,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must set apart three cities for yourself within the land that the LORD your God is giving you to possess.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must prepare a route and divide the territory of the land that the LORD your God is giving you to possess into three regions, so that anyone who commits manslaughter may flee there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning the person who kills another unintentionally and flees to a place of refuge in order to save their life: If someone kills another person accidentally, without any prior hostility or intent to harm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When someone goes into the forest with a neighbor to cut wood, and as they swing the axe to chop down a tree, the axe head slips off the handle and strikes the neighbor, causing their death, the person responsible must flee to one of the designated cities of refuge and live there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To prevent the avenger of blood from pursuing the killer in a heated state of anger and overtaking him, especially if the distance is great, and then killing him—even though the killer did not deserve to die, since he had no prior hatred toward the victim—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I command you, saying, "You must set apart three cities for yourself."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if the LORD your God expands your territory, as he swore to your ancestors, and grants you all the land he promised to give to your forefathers,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you carefully observe all these commandments I am giving you today, to love the LORD your God and to continually walk in his ways, then you shall designate three additional cities for yourself, in addition to these three.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ensure that innocent blood is not shed in your land, which the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance, so that you will not bear the guilt of bloodshed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if someone harbors hatred toward their neighbor, lies in wait for them, attacks them, and strikes them fatally so that they die, and then flees to one of these cities,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005419"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the elders of his city must send for him and bring him back, and hand him over to the avenger of blood, so that he may be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005420"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not show him any mercy, but you must remove the guilt of shedding innocent blood from Israel, so that things may go well for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005421"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not move the boundary marker of your neighbor, which was established by previous generations in the inheritance that you will receive in the land the LORD your God is giving you to possess.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A single witness is not sufficient to bring a charge against someone concerning any wrongdoing or sin they may have committed. A matter must be confirmed by the testimony of two or three witnesses before it can be established as valid.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone bears false witness against another person, testifying against them with a wrongful accusation,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When a dispute arises between two individuals, they must present themselves before the LORD, in the presence of the priests and the judges who are serving at that time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The judges shall conduct a thorough investigation. If it is found that the witness has given false testimony and has lied against their fellow Israelite,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must deal with him as he intended to deal with his brother. In this way, you will remove the evil from your midst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who remain will hear of this and be filled with awe, and they will no longer commit such evil among you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must show no mercy; a life must be repaid with a life, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a hand for a hand, a foot for a foot.</span></p>






</body></html>