<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\ss0aop.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:813ec98b-3378-1833-e01e-6b10a2e67f2c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning someone with a skin disease on the day they are to be declared clean: They must be brought to the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall go outside the camp and examine the person. If he sees that the skin disease has been healed in the one who was afflicted,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall instruct that for the one to be cleansed, two live and clean birds be brought, along with cedar wood, scarlet material, and hyssop.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall instruct that one of the birds be slaughtered in a clay pot over fresh, flowing water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the live bird, he is to take it, along with the cedar wood, the scarlet thread, and the hyssop, and dip them all—including the live bird—into the blood of the bird that was slaughtered over the fresh, flowing water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall sprinkle the person who is to be cleansed from leprosy seven times, declare them clean, and then release the live bird into the open field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person who is to be cleansed must wash their clothes, shave off all their hair, and bathe themselves in water to become clean. After this, they may enter the camp, but they must remain outside their tent for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day, he must shave off all the hair on his head, his beard, and his eyebrows—indeed, all his hair must be removed. Then he must wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and he will be clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eighth day, he must bring two male lambs without any defect, one female lamb in its first year without any defect, three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering, and one log of oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest who performs the cleansing ritual shall bring the person to be cleansed, along with the required offerings, before the LORD at the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take a male lamb and present it as a guilt offering, along with the log of oil, and he shall lift them up as a wave offering before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The lamb shall be slaughtered in the same place where the sin offering and the burnt offering are killed, within the sacred area. For just as the sin offering belongs to the priest, so also does the guilt offering; it is most holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take some of the blood from the guilt offering and apply it to the right ear lobe of the one being cleansed, as well as to the thumb of their right hand and the big toe of their right foot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take a portion of the olive oil from the log measure and pour it into the palm of his left hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall dip his right finger into the oil that is in his left hand and sprinkle some of the oil with his finger seven times in the presence of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take some of the remaining oil that is in his hand and apply it to the tip of the right ear of the one being cleansed, to the thumb of their right hand, and to the big toe of their right foot, placing it over the blood of the guilt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining oil that is in the priest’s hand shall be poured on the head of the one who is to be cleansed. Then the priest shall make atonement for him before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall present the sin offering and perform the atonement ritual for the one being cleansed from their impurity. Afterward, he shall slaughter the burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall present the burnt offering and the grain offering on the altar. Then the priest shall make atonement for him, and he will be cleansed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the person is poor and cannot afford the required amount, they shall bring one lamb as a guilt offering to be presented as a wave offering, to make atonement for them. They shall also bring one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering, along with a log of oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he shall bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons, whichever he can obtain; one shall be offered as a sin offering, and the other as a burnt offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eighth day, he must bring them for his cleansing to the priest, at the entrance of the tent of meeting, in the presence of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take the lamb designated for the guilt offering, along with the log of oil, and present them as a wave offering before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person offering the sacrifice shall slaughter the lamb for the guilt offering. Then the priest shall take some of the blood from the guilt offering and apply it to the right ear of the one being cleansed, to the thumb of their right hand, and to the big toe of their right foot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall pour some of the oil into the palm of his left hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take some of the oil in his left hand and, using his right finger, sprinkle it seven times before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take some of the oil that is in his hand and apply it to the lobe of the right ear of the one being cleansed, to the thumb of their right hand, and to the big toe of their right foot, placing it over the spot where the blood of the guilt offering was applied.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining oil that is in the priest’s hand shall be poured on the head of the one being cleansed, in order to make reconciliation for them before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall present one of the turtledoves or young pigeons, whichever he is able to obtain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person shall bring what they can afford—one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering, along with the grain offering. Then the priest will make atonement for the one seeking purification before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning someone afflicted with a skin disease, who cannot afford the required offerings for their purification.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you enter the land of Canaan, which I am giving to you as your possession, and I cause a plague of leprosy to appear in a house within the land you own,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The owner of the house must come and inform the priest, saying, "It appears to me that there is something like a plague in the house."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest must instruct them to remove everything from the house before he enters to inspect the contamination, so that nothing in the house becomes ceremonially unclean. Afterward, the priest shall enter to examine the house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will examine the affliction, and if the infection in the walls of the house appears as greenish or reddish streaks that seem to be sunken beneath the surface of the wall,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall go out of the house to the entrance of the house and seal off the house for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall return on the seventh day and inspect the house. If he sees that the infection has spread on the walls of the house,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall order that the stones affected by the infection be removed and thrown into an unclean place outside the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall have the inside of the house scraped thoroughly all around, and the dust that is scraped off must be taken outside the city and dumped in a place designated as unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall remove the affected stones and replace them with new ones. Then, they shall take fresh mortar and plaster the house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the contamination reappears and spreads in the house after the stones have been removed, the house has been scraped, and it has been replastered,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall come and inspect the house, and if he sees that the infection has spread within the house, it is a persistent and destructive mildew; the house is unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will demolish the house, including its stones, its timbers, and all the plaster of the house, and he will take them outside the city to a place that is ceremonially unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, anyone who enters the house while it is closed off will remain unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who stays in the house must wash their clothes, and anyone who eats in the house must also wash their clothes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the priest enters and examines the house, and finds that the contamination has not spread after the house has been replastered, then the priest shall declare the house clean, because the contamination has been healed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To purify the house, he shall take two birds, along with cedar wood, scarlet yarn, and hyssop.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall slaughter one of the birds in a clay pot over fresh, flowing water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take the cedar wood, the hyssop, the scarlet material, and the live bird, and dip them into the blood of the bird that was slaughtered and into the fresh water. Then he shall sprinkle the house seven times.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall purify the house by using the blood of the bird, along with fresh water, the live bird, cedar wood, hyssop, and scarlet material.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, he must release the living bird outside the city into the open countryside. In this way, he will make atonement for the house, and it will be declared clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning any kind of infectious skin disease, including scaly or flaking skin conditions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the presence of mildew or mold on a piece of clothing or within a house,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For a swelling, for a rash, or for a shiny spot on the skin:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To determine when something is unclean and when it is clean: this is the regulation concerning leprosy.</span></p>






</body></html>