<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Esther Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\ss108t.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5f002d1b-8cf1-d539-7afe-89ee1159327e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Esther Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar, on the thirteenth day of that month, when the king’s command and his decree were about to be carried out—on the very day when the enemies of the Jews had hoped to gain power over them—the situation was completely reversed. Instead, the Jews gained authority over those who hated them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Jewish people assembled in their cities across all the provinces of King Ahasuerus to defend themselves against those who sought to harm them. No one could oppose them, for a deep fear of the Jews had come upon all the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the governors of the provinces, the regional administrators, the officials, and the king’s representatives supported the Jews because they were deeply afraid of Mordecai. The respect and awe he commanded had a profound impact on them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mordecai held a position of great influence in the king’s palace, and his reputation spread throughout all the provinces. This man Mordecai continued to rise in prominence and power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, the Jews struck down all their enemies with the sword, bringing about slaughter and devastation. They dealt with those who hated them as they saw fit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the royal city of Susa, the Jews killed and annihilated five hundred men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Parshandatha, and Dalphon, and Aspatha.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Poratha, Adalia, and Aridatha.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Parmashta, Arisai, Aridai, and Vajezatha.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They killed the ten sons of Haman, the son of Hammedatha, who was the enemy of the Jews. However, they did not take any of the plunder for themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the count of those who had been killed in the palace of Susa was reported to the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to Queen Esther, "The Jews have killed and destroyed five hundred men in Susa the capital, including the ten sons of Haman. What have they done in the rest of the king’s provinces? Now, what is your request? It will be granted to you. What further do you desire? It will be done."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Esther said, "If it pleases the king, let the Jews in Susa be permitted to act tomorrow as they have today, in accordance with the decree, and let the ten sons of Haman be hanged on the gallows."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king issued the command, and it was carried out. The decree was proclaimed in Shushan, and they executed Haman’s ten sons by hanging.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Jews who were in Susa also assembled on the fourteenth day of the month of Adar and killed three hundred men in Susa. However, they did not take any of their possessions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the other Jews who were in the king’s provinces also assembled to defend their lives. They gained relief from their enemies and killed seventy-five thousand of those who hated them. Yet they did not lay a hand on the plunder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the thirteenth day of the month of Adar, they fought against their enemies, and on the fourteenth day of the same month, they rested and celebrated it as a day of feasting and joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Jews who were in Susa gathered together on the thirteenth day of the month, and again on the fourteenth day. On the fifteenth day, they rested and celebrated it as a day of feasting and joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, the Jews living in rural areas, who resided in unwalled towns, established the fourteenth day of the month of Adar as a day of joy, celebration, and festivity. They made it a time of happiness and sharing, sending gifts of food to one another.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mordecai recorded these events and sent letters to all the Jews throughout all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, both those nearby and those far away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To establish this as a lasting observance among them, that they should celebrate the fourteenth and fifteenth days of the month of Adar every year.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the time when the Jews found relief from their enemies, and the month that was transformed for them from sorrow to joy, and from mourning into a day of celebration. They were to observe these days as times of feasting and rejoicing, of sharing gifts with one another, and of giving to the poor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Jewish people committed themselves to continue what they had started and to follow the instructions that Mordecai had written to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because Haman, the son of Hammedatha, the Agagite, who was the enemy of all the Jews, had plotted against the Jews to annihilate them. He had cast Pur—that is, the lot—to determine the time to crush and destroy them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Esther appeared before the king, he issued a decree that the evil scheme Haman had devised against the Jews should instead fall upon his own head. As a result, he and his sons were condemned to be hanged on the gallows.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, they named these days "Purim" after the term "Pur." This was done because of everything written in this letter, as well as what they had witnessed concerning these events and what had happened to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Jewish people established and committed themselves, their descendants, and all who allied with them to an enduring obligation: to observe these two days each year, as written and at their designated time, without fail.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These days must be remembered and observed by every generation, every family, every province, and every city. The days of Purim must never cease to be celebrated by the Jewish people, nor should the memory of these events fade from their descendants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Queen Esther, the daughter of Abihail, along with Mordecai the Jew, wrote with full authority to establish and confirm this second letter concerning the observance of Purim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He sent letters to all the Jews throughout the 127 provinces of King Ahasuerus’s kingdom, conveying messages of peace and faithfulness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To establish these days of Purim at their designated times, just as Mordecai the Jew and Queen Esther had commanded, and as they had established for themselves and their descendants, including the matters of fasting and lamentation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Esther's decree established these regulations concerning Purim, and it was recorded in the official records.</span></p>






</body></html>