<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\ss2vdq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cf4040ac-a6da-9065-2fd3-18c65d5766b2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I watched as the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard what sounded like a voice of thunder coming from one of the four living creatures, saying, "Come and see."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked, and there before me was a white horse. Its rider held a bow, and a crown was given to him. He rode out as a conqueror, determined to achieve victory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, "Come and see."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then another horse appeared, fiery red in color. The one who sat upon it was granted the authority to remove peace from the earth, causing people to slaughter one another. He was also given a massive sword to carry out this purpose.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the third seal was opened, I heard the third living creature say, "Come and see." Then I looked, and there before me was a black horse, and its rider held a pair of scales in his hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I heard a voice from among the four living creatures say, "A quart of wheat for a day's wages, and three quarts of barley for a day's wages. But do not damage the oil and the wine."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the fourth seal was opened, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, "Come and look."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I looked, and there before me was a pale horse. Its rider was named Death, and the Grave followed close behind him. They were given authority over a fourth of the earth, to bring death by the sword, by famine, by plague, and by the wild animals of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the fifth seal was opened, I saw beneath the altar the souls of those who had been killed because of their faithfulness to God’s word and the testimony they had maintained.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They called out with a loud voice, saying, "How long, O Lord, holy and true, will You delay in judging and avenging our blood on those who live on the earth?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then each of them was given a white robe, and they were told to wait a little longer, until the full number of their fellow servants and brothers and sisters, who were to be killed just as they had been, was completed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I watched as he opened the sixth seal, and suddenly, there was a massive earthquake. The sun turned dark, like black sackcloth made of hair, and the moon became as red as blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The stars of heaven fell to the earth, like unripe figs dropping from a fig tree when it is shaken by a powerful wind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the sky vanished like a scroll being rolled up, and every mountain and island was shifted from its place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The rulers of the earth, the prominent leaders, the wealthy, the military commanders, the powerful, and every enslaved person, as well as every free person, sought refuge by hiding in caves and among the rocky cliffs of the mountains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they cried out to the mountains and the rocks, "Fall on us and conceal us from the presence of the One who sits on the throne, and from the fierce anger of the Lamb!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the great day of His wrath has arrived, and who will be able to endure it?</span></p>






</body></html>