<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Micah Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\ss6m3i.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:047d1303-1b90-afff-29f8-c5b958994ffc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Micah Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen now to what the LORD says: Stand up and present your case before the mountains, and let the hills hear your voice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, O mountains, to the LORD’s case, and you enduring foundations of the earth, for the LORD has a dispute with His people, and He will bring His charges against Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Oh my people, what have I done to you? How have I burdened or exhausted you? Bring your accusations and testify against me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I led you out of the land of Egypt and rescued you from the house of slavery. I sent Moses, Aaron, and Miriam to guide you on your way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O my people, consider now what Balak, the king of Moab, planned, and how Balaam, the son of Beor, responded to him from Shittim all the way to Gilgal. Reflect on these events so that you may understand the righteous acts of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How should I present myself before the LORD and humble myself before the exalted God? Should I come before Him with burnt offerings, with year-old calves?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Does the LORD delight in thousands of rams or in endless streams of oil? Should I offer my firstborn child to pay for my wrongdoing, the child of my own body to atone for my soul's sin?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord has made clear to you, O man, what is good. What does the Lord require of you? It is to act justly, to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The voice of the LORD calls out to the city, and those who are wise will recognize His authority. Listen to the warning of judgment, and consider who has ordained it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do the wicked still hoard their ill-gotten treasures in their homes, and do they still use dishonest and detestable measures?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Should I consider them innocent when they use dishonest scales and deceptive weights?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The wealthy among them are filled with acts of violence, and the people who live there speak lies; their tongues are full of deceit as they speak.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will afflict you with suffering as I strike you, and I will bring you to ruin because of your sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will eat, but you will not be satisfied; your hunger will remain within you. You will strive to save, but you will not succeed; and what you manage to save, I will hand over to destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will plant your fields, but you will not harvest the crops; you will press olives, but you will not anoint yourself with the oil; and you will crush grapes for sweet wine, but you will not drink the wine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You continue to follow the statutes of Omri and all the practices of the house of Ahab, walking in their ways and adopting their counsel. Because of this, I will reduce you to a desolation, and your inhabitants will become an object of scorn and ridicule. As a result, you will bear the disgrace of my people.</span></p>






</body></html>