<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 43</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sscghl.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ff33f360-b3a7-1691-1a43-621e30a7b929" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 43</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jeremiah had finished delivering to all the people every word that the LORD their God had commanded him to speak—all these messages—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Azariah, the son of Hoshaiah, and Johanan, the son of Kareah, along with all the arrogant men, said to Jeremiah, "You are lying! The LORD our God did not send you to tell us, 'Do not go to Egypt to settle there.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Baruch, the son of Neriah, is inciting you against us, intending to hand us over to the Chaldeans, so that they may kill us or take us captive to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Johanan, the son of Kareah, along with all the military commanders and all the people, refused to obey the voice of the LORD by choosing not to remain in the land of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Johanan, the son of Kareah, along with all the military commanders, gathered all the remaining people of Judah who had returned from the various nations where they had been scattered, in order to settle them back in the land of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Men, women, children, the daughters of the king, and every individual whom Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, had left in the care of Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, along with the prophet Jeremiah and Baruch, the son of Neriah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they entered the land of Egypt, for they did not heed the voice of the LORD. In this way, they arrived as far as Tahpanhes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take large stones in your hand and bury them in the clay of the brick pavement at the entrance to Pharaoh’s palace in Tahpanhes. Do this in the presence of the people of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and tell them this message from the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Listen carefully, I am about to summon Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my chosen instrument, and I will place his throne upon these stones that I have concealed. He will set up his royal canopy over them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrives, he will strike the land of Egypt, bringing death to those destined for death, captivity to those destined for captivity, and the sword to those destined for the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will set fire to the temples of Egypt’s gods, and it will consume them. The invaders will take the idols as plunder and carry them away. They will strip the land of Egypt bare, as easily as a shepherd wraps himself in his cloak. Then they will depart from there in safety.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will also destroy the idols of Beth-shemesh, which are in the land of Egypt, and he will set fire to the temples of the Egyptian gods, burning them to the ground.</span></p>






</body></html>