<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\ssd4uk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:458ecb0e-bef6-bf56-0915-1d763944409a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone presents a peace offering to the LORD from the herd, whether it is a male or female animal, it must be without any defect to be acceptable.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person bringing the offering shall place his hand on the head of the animal, then slaughter it at the entrance of the tent of meeting. Afterward, Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall splatter the blood around the sides of the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall present as an offering to the LORD, from the peace offering, a portion to be burned by fire: the fat that covers the internal organs and all the fat that is on the internal organs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall remove the two kidneys along with the fat on them, which is near the loins, and the fatty lobe attached to the liver, together with the kidneys.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron’s sons shall place it on the altar, on top of the burnt offering that is already on the wood burning in the fire. It is a fire offering, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone brings a sheep or goat from the flock as a peace offering to the LORD, whether it is male or female, it must be presented without any defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone presents a lamb as their offering, they must bring it before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person bringing the offering shall place his hand on the head of the animal, then slaughter it in front of the tent of meeting. Afterward, Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall take the blood and sprinkle it all around the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall present a portion of the peace offering as a burnt offering to the LORD. This includes the fat, the entire tail, which he shall remove close to the backbone, as well as the fat that covers the internal organs and all the fat that is attached to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall remove the two kidneys along with the fat surrounding them near the loins, as well as the fatty membrane that covers the liver, together with the kidneys.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall burn it on the altar; it is the food offering, a gift presented by fire to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If his offering is a goat, he must present it before the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person shall place his hand on the head of the animal and slaughter it in front of the tent of meeting. Then the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall splash its blood against the sides of the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall present his offering to the LORD—a burnt offering consisting of the fat that covers the internal organs and all the fat that is on them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shall remove the two kidneys along with the fat surrounding them near the loins, as well as the fatty membrane that covers the liver, together with the kidneys.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall burn them on the altar as a food offering, a gift presented by fire, producing a pleasing aroma to the LORD. All the fat belongs to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This shall be a lasting ordinance for all your generations, wherever you live: you must not consume any fat or blood.</span></p>






</body></html>