<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 25</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sskkda.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:123cbc09-b4fa-be99-798d-2dbbb2b579cc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 25</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a dispute arises between individuals and they bring their case before the court for judgment, the judges are to determine the matter. They must acquit the innocent and declare the guilty to be in the wrong.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the guilty person deserves to be flogged, the judge shall have them lie down and be beaten in his presence, with the number of lashes corresponding to the severity of their offense.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He may give him up to forty lashes, but no more. If he exceeds this limit and beats him with many more lashes, your fellow Israelite would be degraded in your eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not prevent the ox from eating while it is threshing the grain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If brothers live together and one of them dies without having a child, the widow must not marry someone outside the family. Instead, her deceased husband’s brother is to take her as his wife, fulfilling the duty of a brother-in-law by marrying her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the firstborn son is born to her, he shall carry on the name of his deceased brother, so that his brother’s name will not be erased from Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the man refuses to marry his brother’s widow, then his brother’s widow shall go to the elders at the city gate and declare, “My husband’s brother refuses to preserve his brother’s name in Israel; he will not fulfill the duty of a brother-in-law toward me.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the elders of his city shall summon him and speak to him. If he insists and says, "I do not wish to marry her,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the wife of his brother shall approach him in the presence of the elders, remove his sandal from his foot, spit in his face, and declare, "This is what will be done to the man who refuses to establish his brother's household."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his name shall be known in Israel as "The Family of the One Whose Sandal Was Removed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When two men are fighting with each other, and the wife of one of them intervenes to rescue her husband from the one who is striking him, and she reaches out her hand and seizes the other man by his private parts,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall cut off her hand; you must show no mercy or compassion toward her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not carry in your bag differing weights—a heavy one and a light one.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not keep in your house differing measures, both large and small.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must use weights that are accurate and honest, and measures that are true and fair. This is so that you may live long in the land the LORD your God is giving you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All who commit such acts and all who act unjustly are detestable to the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remember what the Amalekites did to you on your journey after you came out of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is how he confronted you on the journey, attacking those who were lagging behind, all who were weak and exhausted, when you were worn out and weary. He showed no reverence for God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, when the LORD your God has granted you relief from all your surrounding enemies, in the land that the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance to possess, you must completely erase the memory of Amalek from under heaven. Do not forget to do this.</span></p>






</body></html>