<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\ssl6rk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4ea667a9-8488-820b-38b6-e3cf03df883b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Joab was informed, saying, "Look, the king is weeping and grieving over Absalom."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the triumph turned into mourning for all the people, for they heard how deeply the king was grieving over his son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the people entered the city quietly that day, like those who are ashamed and slip away unnoticed when they retreat from battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the king covered his face and wept aloud, crying, "Oh, my son Absalom! Oh, Absalom, my son, my son!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab entered the king’s house and said, “Today you have brought disgrace upon all your servants who have saved your life, as well as the lives of your sons and daughters, your wives, and your concubines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you love your enemies and hate your friends. Today you have made it clear that you care nothing for leaders or servants. For today I see that if Absalom had lived and all of us had died, it would have pleased you greatly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, rise up, go out, and speak kindly to your servants, for I swear by the LORD that if you do not go out, not a single one of them will remain with you tonight—and that will bring you greater harm than all the troubles you have faced from your youth until now.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king stood up and took his seat at the city gate. The people were informed, "Look, the king is sitting at the gate!" So all the people came before the king, for every Israelite had returned to their own homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people throughout the tribes of Israel were in conflict, saying, "The king rescued us from the power of our enemies and delivered us from the hand of the Philistines, but now he has fled the land because of Absalom."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Absalom, whom we appointed as our leader, has died in battle. So now, why are you not saying anything about bringing the king back?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King David sent a message to Zadok and Abiathar, the priests, instructing them, "Speak to the elders of Judah and say, 'Why are you delaying in bringing the king back to his palace? The entire nation of Israel has already expressed their desire for the king to return to his home.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are my brothers, my own flesh and blood; why then are you the last to restore the king to his rightful place?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And say to Amasa, “Are you not my own flesh and blood? May God deal with me severely, and even more so, if you do not become the commander of my army in place of Joab, serving before me at all times.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He united the hearts of all the men of Judah as if they were one, so that they sent this message to the king: "Return, you and all your servants."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the king turned back and came to the Jordan River. Meanwhile, the people of Judah went to Gilgal to meet the king and escort him across the Jordan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Shimei, the son of Gera, a Benjamite from Bahurim, hurried and came down with the men of Judah to meet King David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A thousand men from Benjamin accompanied him, along with Ziba, the servant of Saul’s household, and his fifteen sons and twenty servants. They all crossed the Jordan River ahead of the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A ferry boat was sent across to transport the king’s household and to carry out whatever he desired. As the king was crossing the Jordan, Shimei, the son of Gera, came and bowed down before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to the king, "Do not let my lord hold me guilty of wrongdoing, nor remember the offense your servant committed on the day my lord the king left Jerusalem. May the king not dwell on it in his heart."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your servant acknowledges that I have sinned. Therefore, I have come today, the first of all the house of Joseph, to go down and meet my lord the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, responded, "Shouldn’t Shimei be executed for this? He cursed the Lord’s anointed one!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said, "What do you have to do with me, you sons of Zeruiah, that you should oppose me today? Should anyone be put to death in Israel today? Don’t I know that I am now king over Israel?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the king declared to Shimei, "You will not be put to death." And the king made a solemn oath to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mephibosheth, the son of Saul, came down to meet the king. He had not cared for his feet, trimmed his beard, or washed his clothes from the day the king had left until the day he returned safely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrived in Jerusalem to meet the king, the king asked him, “Mephibosheth, why did you not come with me?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "My lord and king, my servant betrayed me. For your servant had said, 'I will saddle a donkey for myself so that I may ride on it and go to the king,' because your servant is lame."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has falsely accused your servant before my lord the king. Yet my lord the king is like an angel of God, discerning good and evil. Therefore, do what seems right and just in your eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of my father’s household were as good as dead in the eyes of my lord the king, yet you have placed your servant among those who eat at your own table. What right, then, do I have to make any further appeal to the king?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to him, "Why do you keep talking about this matter? I have already decided: you and Ziba are to divide the land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Mephibosheth replied to the king, "Let him take everything, for now that my lord the king has returned safely to his own house, it is enough for me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim and crossed the Jordan River with the king to escort him across the Jordan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Barzillai was a very old man, eighty years of age. He had supplied the king with provisions while David stayed at Mahanaim, for he was a man of great wealth and influence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to Barzillai, "Come across with me, and I will provide for you and sustain you in Jerusalem."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Barzillai replied to the king, "How many years do I have left in my life, that I should go up with the king to Jerusalem?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today I am eighty years old. Can I still distinguish between good and evil? Can I still savor the taste of what I eat or drink? Can I still hear the voices of men and women singing? Why then should I, your servant, continue to be a burden to my lord the king?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your servant will cross the Jordan with the king for a short distance, but why should the king grant me such a reward for this?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Please allow your servant to return, so that I may die in my own city and be buried beside the graves of my father and mother. But as for your servant Chimham, let him go with my lord the king, and do for him whatever you think is best.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king replied, "Chimham will cross over with me, and I will do for him whatever you consider right. Whatever you ask of me, I will do for you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people crossed over the Jordan. When the king had crossed over, the king embraced Barzillai, blessed him, and then Barzillai returned to his home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king proceeded to Gilgal, and Chimham accompanied him. All the people of Judah escorted the king, along with half of the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, all the men of Israel came to the king and said to him, "Why have our brothers, the men of Judah, taken you away secretly and brought you, your household, and all of David’s men across the Jordan?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the men of Judah responded to the men of Israel, saying, "The king is closely related to us. Why, then, are you so upset about this? Have we taken anything from the king’s provisions? Has he given us any special gift?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Israel responded to the men of Judah, saying, "We have ten shares in the king, and we have a greater claim to David than you do. Why then did you disregard us? Was it not our right to be consulted first in bringing back our king?" But the words of the men of Judah were even harsher than those of the men of Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>