<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\ssm02a.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f584f69f-f931-5f9c-2d87-dae082e58df2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, David assembled all the finest warriors of Israel, numbering thirty thousand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David set out with all the people who were with him from Baale-judah to bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the name of the LORD of Hosts, who is enthroned above the cherubim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They placed the ark of God on a new cart and transported it from the house of Abinadab, which was in Gibeah. Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, guided the new cart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They carried the ark of God out of the house of Abinadab, which was located in Gibeah. Ahio walked in front of the ark as they moved it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David and all the house of Israel celebrated before the LORD with every kind of musical instrument crafted from fir wood, including harps, lyres, tambourines, rattles, and cymbals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived at Nachon’s threshing floor, Uzzah reached out his hand to steady the ark of God and took hold of it, because the oxen had stumbled and caused it to shake.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD's anger burned against Uzzah, and God struck him down there because of his irreverent act. He died there beside the ark of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David was deeply troubled because the Lord had struck Uzzah with a severe judgment. From that time on, he named the place Perez-uzzah, meaning "the breach of Uzzah," and it is still called that to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And David felt a deep reverence and awe for the LORD on that day, and he said, "How can the ark of the LORD ever come to me?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David decided not to bring the ark of the LORD to himself in the city of David. Instead, he had it taken aside to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ark of the LORD remained in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite for three months, and the LORD blessed Obed-edom and his entire household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King David received a report saying, "The LORD has blessed the household of Obed-edom and everything he owns because of the ark of God." Upon hearing this, David went and brought the ark of God from the house of Obed-edom to the City of David with great joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so it happened that when those carrying the ark of the LORD had taken six steps, he offered sacrifices of oxen and fattened calves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David danced before the LORD with all his strength, wearing a linen ephod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David and all the house of Israel carried up the ark of the LORD with joyful shouting and the sound of trumpets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the ark of the LORD entered the city of David, Michal, the daughter of Saul, looked out from a window and saw King David leaping and dancing before the LORD. In her heart, she felt contempt for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They brought the ark of the LORD and placed it in its designated spot, within the tent that David had set up for it. Then David presented burnt offerings and peace offerings to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As soon as David finished presenting the burnt offerings and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD of Hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He distributed food to all the people—the entire assembly of Israel, both men and women. To each person, he gave a loaf of bread, a portion of meat, and a measure of wine. After this, all the people returned to their homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David returned to bless his household. But Michal, the daughter of Saul, came out to meet him and said, "How distinguished the king of Israel has made himself today, exposing himself in the sight of his servants' female servants, as some vulgar man would shamelessly expose himself!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Michal, "It was before the Lord, who chose me over your father and over all his household, to appoint me as ruler over the Lord’s people, over Israel. That is why I will celebrate before the Lord."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will become even more undignified than this, and I will humble myself in my own eyes. Yet regarding the servant girls you mentioned—by them I will be held in honor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, Michal, the daughter of Saul, remained childless until the day she died.</span></p>






</body></html>