<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 29</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\ssmx4l.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8947e24b-8f98-eacb-4515-7af5cef1ecd0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 29</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Woe to Ariel, to Ariel, the city where David once settled! Year after year you continue your rituals; let the sacrifices be offered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring distress upon Ariel, and there will be mourning and lamentation. The city will become to me like Ariel itself—a place of fierce struggle and fiery judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will encircle you and set up a siege against you on every side. I will build siege ramps and construct fortifications to surround you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will be brought low, and you will speak from the ground; your words will rise faintly from the dust. Your voice will sound like that of a spirit from the earth, and your speech will murmur softly from the dust.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the vast number of your foreign invaders will be like fine dust, and the hordes of fearsome warriors will be like chaff blown away by the wind. Indeed, it will happen suddenly, in an instant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD of hosts will come upon you with thunder, earthquakes, and a mighty roar, with violent storms, whirlwinds, and the blazing flames of consuming fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all the vast armies of the nations that wage war against Ariel, all who attack her and her strongholds, and bring her distress, will become like a fleeting dream, like a vision in the night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It will be like when a hungry person dreams of eating, but upon waking, their hunger remains unsatisfied; or like when a thirsty person dreams of drinking, but upon waking, they are still faint and their soul longs for refreshment. In the same way, the vast multitude of all the nations that wage war against Mount Zion will find their efforts futile and their desires unfulfilled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Stand still and be amazed; cry out in distress and lament. They are intoxicated, but not from wine; they stagger, but not from strong drink.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD has poured out upon you a spirit of deep slumber and has closed your eyes. He has veiled the vision of your prophets and your leaders, the seers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire vision has become for you like the words of a sealed book. When it is given to someone who can read, and they are told, "Please read this," they reply, "I cannot, because it is sealed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The scroll is handed to someone who cannot read, with the request, "Please read this." But he responds, "I do not know how to read."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the Lord declared: "Because these people approach me with their words and honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far removed from me, and their reverence for me is merely a human tradition they have been taught."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, take note: I am about to perform an extraordinary work among this people—a work so remarkable and astonishing that it will be a wonder to behold. For the wisdom of their so-called wise will come to nothing, and the insight of their most discerning will be obscured.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible it will be for those who go to great lengths to conceal their plans from the LORD, carrying out their deeds in darkness, and saying, "Who sees us? Who knows what we are doing?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, your perversion of what is right will be regarded as the potter regards clay. For can the creation say to its creator, "You did not make me"? Or can what is formed say to the one who shaped it, "You have no understanding"?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is it not just a short time until Lebanon will be transformed into a fertile land, and the fertile land will be regarded as a dense forest?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, those who are deaf will hear the words written in the book, and the eyes of the blind will see clearly, emerging from gloom and darkness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The humble will find their joy in the LORD greatly increased, and those in need among humanity will take delight in the Holy One of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The tyrant will be brought to nothing, the mocker will be destroyed, and all who eagerly seek to do evil will be cut off.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You condemn a person for a mere word, and set a trap for the one who speaks truth in the public square. You twist justice, turning aside the innocent for something trivial.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD, who redeemed Abraham, declares concerning the house of Jacob: Jacob will no longer be disgraced, nor will his face grow pale with shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when he sees his children, the work of my hands, among him, they will honor my name and revere the Holy One of Jacob. They will stand in awe of the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who have gone astray in their thoughts will gain true understanding, and those who have complained will come to accept instruction.</span></p>






</body></html>