<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\ssqhfs.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e10b67b6-2fcb-e966-2ac9-761a3b94c3ff" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the message of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, son of man, this is what the Lord GOD declares concerning the land of Israel: The end has come—the final end is now upon the four corners of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The time of your judgment has arrived; I will unleash my anger against you. I will judge you according to your actions and repay you for all your detestable deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will not show you any mercy or spare you from judgment. Instead, I will repay you according to your actions, and your detestable deeds will remain among you. Then you will come to understand that I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: "A disaster, a singular disaster—look, it has arrived!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The end has arrived; the final moment is here. It is poised and waiting for you; indeed, it has now come.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The day has dawned upon you, O inhabitant of the land. The time has arrived, the day of distress is near, and it will not be a time of joyful shouts echoing from the mountains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will soon pour out my wrath upon you and fully unleash my anger against you. I will judge you according to your actions and repay you for all your detestable deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will show no mercy, nor will I spare you. I will repay you according to your actions and the detestable practices that are among you. Then you will know that I am the LORD, the one who strikes with judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the day has arrived; it is here. The morning has dawned; the rod has sprouted, and arrogance has blossomed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Violence has grown into a weapon of evil; none of them will survive, nor will any of their multitude or their possessions endure. There will be no mourning or lamentation for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The appointed time has arrived, and the day is near. Let neither the buyer celebrate nor the seller grieve, for wrath is coming upon all the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The seller will not be able to reclaim what has been sold, even if they are still alive. For the vision concerns the entire multitude, and none of them will return; no one will be able to secure themselves through the wrongdoing of their life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have sounded the trumpet, preparing everyone for action, yet no one steps forward to engage in battle, for my wrath is upon the entire assembly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Outside, the sword brings death; inside, famine and plague consume. Those in the open fields will fall by the sword, while those in the city will be destroyed by famine and disease.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, those who manage to escape will flee and take refuge in the mountains, like doves in the valleys, all of them lamenting, each one grieving over their own wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every hand will grow weak, and every knee will tremble like water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will wrap themselves in sackcloth, and terror will overwhelm them. Shame will be visible on every face, and every head will be shaved bare.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will throw their silver into the streets, and their gold will be treated as worthless. Their silver and gold will not be able to save them on the day of the LORD’s wrath. It will not satisfy their hunger or fill their stomachs, for it has become the cause of their downfall through their sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He adorned himself with splendid ornaments, displaying his majesty. Yet they used these very things to create images of their detestable idols and abominations. For this reason, I have removed these ornaments far from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will hand it over to foreigners as plunder and to the wicked of the earth as spoil, and they will defile it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also turn my face away from them, and they will defile my sacred sanctuary. Intruders will enter it and profane it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prepare a chain, for the land is filled with acts of bloodshed, and the city overflows with violence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will bring the most ruthless of the nations, and they will take possession of their homes. I will put an end to the pride of the mighty, and their sacred places will be desecrated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Devastation is coming; they will search for peace, but it will not be found.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Disaster will follow disaster, and troubling reports will spread one after another. In that time, people will seek a vision from the prophet, but the guidance of the law will vanish from the priests, and wise counsel will be lost from the elders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king will grieve, and the prince will be wrapped in despair. The hands of the common people will tremble in fear. I will deal with them according to their actions and judge them based on what they deserve. Then they will come to understand that I am the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>