<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jude Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sssl1z.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:89788b4b-80b3-9b2a-e524-eca083f67bfc" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jude Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who have been set apart by God the Father, kept secure in Jesus Christ, and called to belong to Him:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May mercy, peace, and love be abundantly granted to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Dear friends, although I made every effort to write to you about the salvation we all share, I found it necessary to write and urge you to vigorously defend the faith that was entrusted once and for all to God’s holy people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For some individuals have secretly infiltrated among you—people who were long ago marked out for this condemnation. They are ungodly, perverting the grace of our God into a license for immoral behavior and rejecting the only sovereign Lord, God, and our Lord Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I want to remind you of something you already know: after the Lord rescued the people from the land of Egypt, He later destroyed those who did not believe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the angels who did not remain in their original position of authority but abandoned their proper dwelling place, God has kept in eternal bonds under darkness, reserved for the judgment of the great day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as Sodom and Gomorrah, along with the surrounding cities, indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desires, they stand as a warning example, enduring the punishment of eternal fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, these impure dreamers corrupt their own bodies, reject authority, and slander those in positions of honor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet Michael the archangel, when he was in conflict with the devil and arguing about the body of Moses, did not dare to bring a slanderous accusation against him, but instead said, “May the Lord rebuke you.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, these individuals speak disrespectfully about matters they do not understand. In contrast, they rely on their natural instincts, like irrational animals, and in doing so, they bring about their own ruin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How terrible for them! They have followed the path of Cain, eagerly pursued the deceitful ways of Balaam for profit, and were destroyed in the rebellion of Korah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These individuals are like blemishes at your love feasts, shamelessly indulging themselves as they eat with you. They are like clouds without rain, blown about by the wind; like fruitless trees in autumn, twice dead, uprooted and barren.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Like wild, turbulent waves of the sea, churning up the foam of their own disgrace; like wandering stars, destined for the deepest, eternal darkness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Enoch, the seventh generation from Adam, also prophesied about these things, saying, "Look, the Lord is coming with tens of thousands of His holy ones."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To carry out judgment on everyone and to convict all the ungodly among them of all their ungodly acts, which they have committed in defiance of God, and of all the harsh words that ungodly sinners have spoken against Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are grumblers and complainers, living according to their own selfish desires. They speak arrogantly and boastfully, flattering others for their own gain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But, dear friends, remember the words that were previously spoken by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They informed you that in the final days there would be scoffers, who would follow their own ungodly desires.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the ones who isolate themselves, driven by their own desires, lacking the Spirit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you, dearly loved ones, must continue to strengthen yourselves in your most sacred faith, praying by the power of the Holy Spirit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remain steadfast in the love of God, eagerly anticipating the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ, which leads to eternal life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Show mercy to some, distinguishing between them carefully.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And others, save them with urgency, rescuing them from destruction; while detesting even the clothing stained by their sinful nature.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now to Him who has the power to keep you from stumbling and to bring you into His glorious presence without fault, filled with overwhelming joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the only wise God, our Savior, belong glory, majesty, dominion, and power, both now and forever. Amen.</span></p>






</body></html>