<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\st1pyw.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f9cec008-8c93-78d6-7677-50159ca67938" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone has a swelling, a scab, or a shiny spot on their skin that resembles the appearance of a leprous disease, they must be brought to Aaron the priest or to one of his sons who serve as priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall examine the sore on the skin of the body. If the hair in the sore has turned white and the sore appears to be deeper than the surrounding skin, it is a sign of leprosy. After examining it, the priest shall declare the person unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If there is a white spot on someone's skin, and it appears to be no deeper than the skin itself, and the hair in the affected area has not turned white, then the priest must isolate the person with the skin condition for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall examine him again on the seventh day. If the skin condition has not changed and the infection has not spread further, the priest must isolate him for another seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day, the priest shall examine him again. If the affected area has faded and the infection has not spread on the skin, the priest shall declare him clean; it is only a scab. He must wash his clothes, and he will be clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if the rash spreads further across the skin after the priest has examined him for his cleansing, he must be examined by the priest once more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the priest observes that the skin disease has indeed spread across the skin, then the priest must declare the person unclean; it is a case of leprosy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a person is afflicted with a skin disease, such as leprosy, they must be brought to the priest for examination.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall examine him, and if the swelling on the skin appears white, has turned the hair white, and there is fresh, raw flesh in the swelling,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is a chronic skin disease, a form of leprosy, on his flesh. The priest must declare him unclean; he is not to isolate him, for he is already unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a skin disease spreads widely across the skin, covering the entire body of the infected person from head to toe, wherever the priest examines it,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall examine him, and if he sees that the leprosy has covered the entire body, he shall declare the person clean who has the infection. Since it has all turned white, he is clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if raw, exposed flesh appears on him, he will be considered unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest will examine the exposed, raw flesh and declare the person unclean, because the raw flesh is unclean—it is a sign of leprosy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the raw flesh heals and turns white again, the person must go to the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall examine him, and if the affected area has turned white, the priest shall declare him clean. He is indeed clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The flesh, including the skin, that has a boil and then heals,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If there is a white swelling or a bright spot on the skin that appears white or slightly reddish where the boil was, it must be shown to the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the priest examines it, if the affected area appears to be deeper than the skin and the hair in it has turned white, the priest must declare the person unclean. It is a case of leprosy that has broken out from the boil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if the priest examines it and finds no white hairs in it, and if the spot is not deeper than the skin but appears somewhat faded, then the priest shall isolate the person for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the condition spreads extensively across the skin, the priest must declare the person unclean; it is a contagious skin disease.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the bright spot remains in its place and does not spread, it is a scar from a boil; the priest shall then declare him clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If there is any area of skin that has a severe burn, and the raw, burned flesh develops a bright white spot that appears somewhat reddish or white,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall examine it, and if the hair in the bright spot has turned white and the spot appears deeper than the skin, it is a case of leprosy that has broken out from the burn. Therefore, the priest shall declare the person unclean; it is a contagious skin disease of leprosy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if the priest examines it and finds that there is no white hair in the bright spot, and it is not deeper than the surrounding skin but appears somewhat faded, then the priest must isolate the person for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day, the priest shall examine him again. If the condition has spread significantly across the skin, the priest must declare him unclean; it is a case of leprosy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the bright spot remains in its place and does not spread across the skin, but appears somewhat faded, it is the swelling from a burn. The priest shall then declare the person clean, for it is merely the inflammation of a burn.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man or woman has a sore or infection on their head or beard,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall examine the affected area, and if it appears to be deeper than the skin, with thin yellow hair growing in it, the priest shall declare the person unclean. It is a scaly sore, a form of leprosy on the head or beard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the priest examines the scaly skin condition and finds that it does not appear deeper than the skin and there is no black hair in it, then the priest must isolate the person with the scaly condition for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day, the priest shall examine the affected area. If he observes that the scaly skin condition has not spread, there is no yellowish hair present, and the infection does not appear to be deeper than the skin,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person must shave their head, but they must not shave the area affected by the scaly infection. The priest is to isolate the one with the infection for another seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day, the priest shall examine the scaly infection. If the infection has not spread on the skin and does not appear to go deeper than the skin, the priest shall declare the person clean. After this, the person must wash their clothes, and they will be considered clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if the scaly infection spreads further on the skin after he has been pronounced clean,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall examine him, and if the scaly patch has spread across the skin, the priest need not look for yellow hair; the person is unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the scaly patch remains unchanged in appearance and black hair has grown in it, the condition is healed; the person is clean. The priest shall then declare them clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man or a woman has shiny patches on the skin of their body, patches that are white and shiny,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall examine it, and if the spots on the skin of their body are a dull white, it is a harmless rash that has developed on the skin; the person is clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man who has lost the hair from his head is bald, but he is still considered clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone has lost hair from the front part of their head, toward their face, making their forehead bald, they are still considered clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If there is a sore on a bald head or bald forehead that appears white and reddish, it is a case of leprosy that has broken out on the bald area of the head or forehead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall examine it, and if the swelling on the bald area of the head or forehead appears white with a reddish tint, resembling the appearance of leprosy on the skin of the body,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man has a leprous disease; he is unclean. The priest must declare him completely unclean, for the infection is on his head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone is afflicted with a skin disease, they must tear their clothing, leave their head uncovered, and cover the lower part of their face. They must call out, "Unclean, unclean!" to warn others of their condition.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For as long as the infection remains on him, he will be considered defiled and unclean. He must live in isolation; his dwelling place shall be outside the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The garment in which the mark of leprosy is found, whether it is made of wool or linen,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whether it is in the woven fabric or the knitted material, whether in linen or wool, whether in leather or in anything made of leather—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If there is a greenish or reddish discoloration in a garment, in the leather, in the woven fabric, or in any leather item, it is a sign of mildew or leprosy-like contamination. It must be shown to the priest for examination.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall examine the infection, and then isolate the affected person for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day, he must examine the affected area again. If the contamination has spread in the fabric—whether in the woven or knitted material, or in any leather or leather goods—it is a persistent and infectious mildew; the item is unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, he must burn the garment, whether it is woven or knitted, made of wool or linen, or any leather item, if the mark of the plague is found on it. For it is a spreading leprosy; it must be completely burned in the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the priest examines it and finds that the infection has not spread in the garment—whether in the woven or knitted fabric, or in any leather item—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest shall order that the item with the infection be washed, and he shall isolate it for another seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall examine the affected area after it has been washed. If the discoloration has not changed and the infection has not spread, it is unclean. You must burn it in the fire, for the damage is deep, whether it appears on the surface or beneath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the priest examines it and finds that the affected area has faded after being washed, he must tear out the stained portion from the garment, the leather, the woven fabric, or the knitted material.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the mark remains visible on the garment, whether in the woven threads, the fabric, or on any leather item, it is a spreading contamination. You must burn the affected item completely in the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">58 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a garment, whether woven or knitted, or any leather item, has been washed and the contamination has disappeared, it must be washed a second time, and then it will be clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">59 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning the contamination of mildew or mold in a garment made of wool or linen, whether in the woven threads or the knitted fabric, or in any item made of leather, to determine whether it is clean or unclean.</span></p>






</body></html>