<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\st1zbg.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b9ddb775-1132-fc43-54ae-7cc1106b6d8b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As David's life neared its end and the time of his death approached, he gave these instructions to his son Solomon:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"I am about to die, as all people must. Therefore, be strong and courageous, and prove yourself worthy of being called a man."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And faithfully carry out the responsibilities the LORD your God has given you, walking in his ways, observing his statutes, his commandments, his ordinances, and his decrees, as written in the law of Moses. By doing so, you will succeed in all that you do and wherever you go.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that the LORD may fulfill the promise He made concerning me, saying, "If your descendants are careful to live faithfully before Me, walking in truth with all their heart and all their soul, then you will never lack a man to sit on the throne of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, you are aware of what Joab, the son of Zeruiah, did to me and how he treated the two commanders of Israel’s armies—Abner, the son of Ner, and Amasa, the son of Jether. He killed them both, shedding their blood during a time of peace as if it were war. He stained his belt around his waist and the sandals on his feet with their blood, acting deceitfully and violently when there should have been peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Act, therefore, according to your wisdom, and do not allow his gray head to descend to the grave in peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Show kindness to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and allow them to be among those who eat at your table. For they supported me when I fled from your brother Absalom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, you have with you Shimei, the son of Gera, a Benjamite from Bahurim, who cursed me with a terrible curse on the day I went to Mahanaim. However, he came down to meet me at the Jordan, and I swore to him by the LORD, saying, “I will not put you to death by the sword.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, do not consider him innocent, for you are a wise man and know what you must do to him. Ensure that his gray head is brought down to the grave in a manner befitting his guilt—with blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David died and was buried in the City of David, joining his ancestors in death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David ruled over Israel for a total of forty years. He reigned in Hebron for seven years and in Jerusalem for thirty-three years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Solomon took his seat on the throne of his father David, and his reign was firmly established and greatly strengthened.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Adonijah, the son of Haggith, approached Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon. She asked him, "Have you come in peace?" He replied, "Yes, in peace."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He then added, "I have something to tell you." And she replied, "Go ahead and speak."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "You are aware that the kingdom was rightfully mine, and all Israel expected me to reign. Yet the kingdom has been taken from me and given to my brother, for it was the Lord’s will that he should have it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now I make one request of you—do not refuse me. She replied, "Speak."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Please speak to King Solomon on my behalf—for he will not refuse you—and ask him to give me Abishag the Shunammite as my wife."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Bathsheba replied, "Very well; I will speak to the king on your behalf."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Bathsheba went to King Solomon to speak to him on behalf of Adonijah. The king stood up to greet her, bowed respectfully before her, and then returned to his throne. He ordered a seat to be prepared for his mother, and she sat down at his right side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then she said, "I have one small request to make of you; please do not refuse me." The king replied, "Ask, my mother, for I will not deny you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said, "Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah, your brother, as his wife."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon responded to his mother, saying, "Why are you requesting Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? You might as well ask for the kingdom on his behalf, since he is my older brother. Indeed, you could ask for him, and for Abiathar the priest, and for Joab the son of Zeruiah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Solomon made a solemn oath in the name of the LORD, declaring, "May God bring severe judgment upon me, and even more, if Adonijah has not spoken these words at the cost of his own life."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, as surely as the LORD lives—the one who has established me, seated me on the throne of my father David, and built a dynasty for me as he promised—Adonijah will be executed today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon sent Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, to carry out his command. Benaiah attacked him, and he died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to Abiathar the priest, "Go to Anathoth, to your own land, for you deserve to die. However, I will not execute you at this time, because you carried the ark of the Lord GOD before my father David, and because you shared in all the hardships my father endured."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Solomon removed Abiathar from serving as priest to the LORD, in order to fulfill the word that the LORD had spoken concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then news reached Joab, for Joab had sided with Adonijah, though he had not supported Absalom. So Joab fled to the tent of the LORD and took hold of the horns of the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon was informed that Joab had fled to the tent of the LORD and was now standing beside the altar. Solomon then sent Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, with this command: "Go and strike him down."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Benaiah went to the tent of the LORD and said to Joab, "The king commands, 'Come out!'" But Joab replied, "No, I will die here." So Benaiah returned to the king and reported, "This is what Joab said, and this is how he answered me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to him, "Do as he has instructed. Strike him down and bury him, so that you may remove from me and from my father’s house the guilt of innocent blood that Joab shed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will bring his bloodshed back upon his own head, for he attacked and killed with the sword two men more righteous and honorable than himself—Abner son of Ner, commander of Israel’s army, and Amasa son of Jether, commander of Judah’s army—without my father David’s knowledge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the guilt for their blood will fall upon Joab and his descendants forever. But for David, his descendants, his household, and his throne, there will be lasting peace from the LORD for all time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, went and attacked him, killing him. He was then buried in his own home in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king appointed Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, to take command of the army in place of Joab. Additionally, the king placed Zadok the priest in the position that had been held by Abiathar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king sent for Shimei and said to him, "Build yourself a house in Jerusalem and live there. Do not leave that place to go anywhere else."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For it will happen that on the day you go out and cross the Kidron Valley, you will know with certainty that you will surely die. Your blood will be on your own head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shimei replied to the king, "Your words are good. Just as my lord the king has commanded, so will your servant do." And Shimei remained in Jerusalem for many days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After three years had passed, two of Shimei’s servants fled to Achish, the son of Maachah, king of Gath. They informed Shimei, saying, “Your servants are in Gath.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shimei got up, prepared his donkey, and traveled to Gath to meet with Achish in order to search for his servants. Shimei went and brought his servants back from Gath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon was informed that Shimei had left Jerusalem and traveled to Gath, and had now returned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king sent for Shimei and said to him, "Did I not make you swear an oath before the LORD and solemnly warn you, saying, 'You must understand this clearly: on the day you leave and go anywhere, you will certainly die'? And you replied to me, 'What you have said is good; I accept it.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why then have you not kept the oath you made before the LORD and the command I gave you?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king continued, saying to Shimei, "You are fully aware of all the evil that your heart secretly knows you committed against my father David. Because of this, the LORD will bring your wickedness back upon your own head."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon will be blessed, and the throne of David will be firmly established in the presence of the LORD forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the king ordered Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, to carry out the command. Benaiah went out and struck him down, and he died. In this way, the kingdom was firmly secured under Solomon’s rule.</span></p>






</body></html>