<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\st23sz.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c841eae5-d57b-937f-79da-e59fc82cd3aa" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon, the son of David, became firmly established in his kingdom, and the LORD his God was with him, greatly elevating his status and influence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Solomon addressed all of Israel—the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, the judges, and all the leaders throughout Israel, including the heads of the ancestral families.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Solomon, along with the entire assembly, went to the high place at Gibeon, for that was where the tabernacle of meeting with God stood—the one that Moses, the servant of the LORD, had made in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, David had brought the ark of God up from Kirjath-jearim to the place he had prepared for it, for he had set up a tent in Jerusalem to house it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the bronze altar that Bezaleel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had crafted was placed in front of the tabernacle of the LORD. Solomon and the assembly of Israel came to it to seek the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon then ascended to the bronze altar that stood before the LORD at the tent of meeting, and there he presented a thousand burnt offerings upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That night, God appeared to Solomon and said to him, "Ask what I should give you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Solomon said to God, "You have shown great kindness to David, my father, and have made me king in his place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, O LORD God, may the promise you made to my father David be fulfilled, for you have appointed me as king over a people as numerous as the dust of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Grant me now wisdom and understanding, so that I may lead and guide this people. For who is able to govern this great people of yours?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And God said to Solomon, "Because this desire was in your heart, and you did not ask for riches, wealth, or honor, nor for the lives of your enemies, nor even for a long life, but instead you asked for wisdom and knowledge for yourself so that you may govern My people, over whom I have made you king..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I grant you wisdom and understanding; moreover, I will give you riches, wealth, and honor such as no king before you has ever possessed, nor will any after you attain the same.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Solomon returned from his journey to the high place at Gibeon, he came to Jerusalem. He had been before the tent of meeting, and now he began to reign over Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon assembled chariots and horsemen, acquiring a total of 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horsemen. He stationed them in the cities designated for chariots and also kept some with him in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king made silver and gold as common in Jerusalem as stones, and he supplied cedar trees in such abundance that they became as plentiful as the sycamore trees in the lowlands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon acquired horses from Egypt, as well as fine linen. The king’s traders purchased the linen at a set price.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They procured and brought out of Egypt a chariot for six hundred shekels of silver and a horse for one hundred and fifty shekels. In this way, they supplied horses for all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Aram (Syria), acting as intermediaries.</span></p>






</body></html>