<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\st8xiy.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:1038ab75-63b4-d411-75e8-943167ef2eab" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, David attacked the Philistines and brought them under his control. He captured Gath and its surrounding towns from the Philistines' dominion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David attacked Moab and defeated them, making the Moabites his subjects. They submitted to his rule and brought him tribute.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David defeated Hadadezer, king of Zobah, as far as Hamath, when Hadadezer went to establish his control along the Euphrates River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David captured from him a thousand chariots, seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers. David also disabled all the chariot horses by cutting their hamstrings, but he kept a hundred chariots for his own use.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Arameans from Damascus came to assist Hadadezer, the king of Zobah, David defeated them, killing twenty-two thousand of their men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David stationed troops in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became his subjects, bringing tribute to him. In this way, the LORD ensured David's success wherever he went.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David captured the gold shields that belonged to the officials of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David also took a large quantity of bronze from Tibhath and Chun, cities belonging to Hadadezer. Solomon later used this bronze to craft the bronze basin, the pillars, and the various bronze utensils.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Tou, the king of Hamath, heard that David had defeated the entire army of Hadadezer, the king of Zobah,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He sent his son Hadoram to King David to greet him and express goodwill, as well as to congratulate him on his victory over Hadadezer. (For Hadadezer had been at war with Tou.) Hadoram also brought with him all kinds of articles made of gold, silver, and bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King David also dedicated these things to the LORD, along with the silver and gold he had taken from all these nations: from Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and Amalek.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, killed eighteen thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David stationed military outposts throughout Edom, and all the Edomites became his subjects. In this way, the LORD ensured David's success and protection wherever he went.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David ruled over all of Israel, administering justice and fairness to all his people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was in command of the army, and Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, served as the official recorder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zadok, the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech, the son of Abiathar, served as priests, while Shavsha held the position of scribe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was in charge of the Cherethites and the Pelethites, while David’s sons served as chief advisors to the king.</span></p>






</body></html>