<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ecclesiastes Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\ste7ps.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:74c3c73c-97d3-4919-938d-7f04aee30633" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ecclesiastes Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be mindful of your conduct when you enter the house of God. Approach with a readiness to listen rather than to offer the careless sacrifices of those who act without understanding. Such individuals fail to recognize that their actions are wrong.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not speak impulsively with your mouth, nor let your heart be quick to express words before God, for God is in heaven, and you are on earth. Therefore, let your words be few and thoughtful.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For dreams arise from an abundance of activity, and the voice of a fool is recognized by an excess of words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you make a vow to God, do not delay in fulfilling it, for He takes no pleasure in foolishness. Fulfill what you have promised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It is better not to make a vow than to make one and fail to fulfill it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not let your words lead you into sin, and do not say before the messenger of God that it was a mistake. Why should God become angry at what you say and bring ruin to the work of your hands?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For in the abundance of dreams and endless words, there are also many empty distractions. Instead, you should stand in awe of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you witness the oppression of the poor and the unjust distortion of fairness and justice in a region, do not be surprised by such matters. For the One who is above the highest authorities watches over these things, and there are even greater powers above them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the produce of the land benefits everyone: even the king depends on the harvest from the fields.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever loves money will never have enough money, and whoever desires great wealth will never be satisfied by its increase. This, too, is meaningless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When wealth increases, so do those who consume it; and what benefit do the owners truly gain, except to look upon it with their eyes?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sleep of a hardworking person is satisfying, whether they have eaten little or much. But the wealth of the rich keeps them restless, preventing them from finding rest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have observed a grievous misfortune under the sun: wealth hoarded by its owners, only to bring harm to themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, those riches are lost through misfortune, and though he fathers a son, he has nothing left to pass on.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a person comes from their mother’s womb, so they will return—naked, just as they arrived. They will take nothing from their labor that they can carry away in their hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This, too, is a grievous misfortune: exactly as a person comes into the world, so they will depart. What gain is there for someone who has toiled and strived, only to chase after the wind?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Throughout his life, he eats in darkness, experiencing much grief, frustration, and distress because of his affliction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Consider what I have observed: it is good and fitting for a person to eat and drink, and to find satisfaction in all the toil they undertake under the sun during the days of their life that God has given them—for this is their rightful portion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To every person whom God has granted riches and possessions, and has also given the ability to enjoy them, to receive their share, and to find joy in their work—this is a gift from God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he will not dwell long on the troubles of his life, because God responds to him with the joy that fills his heart.</span></p>






</body></html>