<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\stj5cy.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:54a6da65-ccc7-6398-52d8-a282979a6666" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some men who had come from Judea began teaching the believers, saying, "Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Paul and Barnabas found themselves in a significant conflict and debate with them, they decided that Paul and Barnabas, along with some others, should go up to Jerusalem to present this matter to the apostles and elders for resolution.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The church accompanied them on their journey, and as they traveled through Phoenicia and Samaria, they shared the news of the Gentiles turning to faith. This brought immense joy to all the believers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived in Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the church, as well as by the apostles and elders. They then recounted everything that God had accomplished through them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, some from the sect of the Pharisees who had become believers stood up and argued, saying, "It is necessary to circumcise them and to instruct them to observe the law of Moses."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The apostles and elders gathered together to deliberate on this matter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After much debate, Peter stood up and addressed them, saying, "Brothers, you are aware that some time ago, God chose me from among you so that the Gentiles might hear the message of the gospel through me and come to believe."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And God, who knows the hearts of all, confirmed their acceptance by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as he did to us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts through faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So now, why are you testing God by placing a heavy burden on the necks of the disciples—a yoke that neither our ancestors nor we have been able to carry?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We are convinced that we will be saved through the gracious favor of the Lord Jesus Christ, just as they are.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the entire assembly fell silent and listened attentively as Barnabas and Paul recounted the great signs and wonders that God had performed among the Gentiles through their ministry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had finished speaking, James responded, saying, "My fellow believers, listen to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Simeon has explained how God first showed His concern for the Gentiles, to choose from among them a people who would belong to Him and bear His name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The words of the prophets align with this, as it is written:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, I will return and rebuild the fallen dwelling place of David. I will restore its ruins and raise it up again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that the remaining people may seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles who are called by my name, says the Lord, who accomplishes all these things.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God has known all His works from the very beginning of the world.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, my judgment is that we should not burden those who have turned to God from among the Gentiles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, we should write to them, instructing them to abstain from the defilement of idols, from sexual immorality, from eating the meat of animals that have been strangled, and from consuming blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For in every city, Moses has had his teachings proclaimed, as his writings are read aloud in the synagogues every Sabbath day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the apostles and elders, along with the entire church, decided to select men from among themselves to send to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They chose Judas, also called Barsabbas, and Silas, both of whom were respected leaders among the believers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The apostles, elders, and fellow believers wrote letters to the Gentile believers in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia, sending them this message: Greetings from the apostles, elders, and your brothers and sisters in faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since we have learned that some individuals who left our community have unsettled you with their words, disturbing your faith by insisting that you must be circumcised and follow the law—a requirement we never gave them authority to impose—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After careful deliberation and being united in purpose, we have decided to send chosen representatives to you, along with our dear brothers Barnabas and Paul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Men who have risked their lives for the sake of the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, we have sent Judas and Silas, who will personally explain these matters to you in detail.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For it has been decided by the Holy Spirit and by us not to impose on you any greater obligation than these essential requirements.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must refrain from eating food sacrificed to idols, from consuming blood, from eating meat from animals that were strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you avoid these things, you will be doing what is right. Farewell.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they were sent off, they arrived in Antioch. Once they had assembled the entire community, they presented the letter to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they read it, they were filled with joy because of the encouragement it brought.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027475"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judas and Silas, who were also prophets, encouraged the believers with many words and strengthened their faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027476"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had stayed there for a while, the believers sent them on their way in peace to return to the apostles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027477"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Silas chose to remain there, as he was content to stay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027478"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch, teaching and proclaiming the message of the Lord, along with many others.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027479"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some time later, Paul said to Barnabas, "Let us return and visit the believers in every city where we have proclaimed the word of the Lord, to see how they are doing."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Barnabas decided to take John, also known as Mark, with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Paul did not consider it wise to take him along, since he had left them in Pamphylia and had not continued with them in the work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The disagreement between them became so intense that they decided to part ways. Barnabas took Mark with him and set sail for Cyprus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul selected Silas to accompany him and set out on his journey. The believers commended them to the grace and favor of God as they departed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He traveled through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening and encouraging the churches in their faith.</span></p>






</body></html>