<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\stkh1a.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:1277773e-23c2-a379-b823-969b2e66df87" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Solomon finished praying, fire descended from heaven and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices. Then the glory of the LORD filled the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests were unable to enter the temple of the LORD because the glory of the LORD had completely filled the LORD’s house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all the Israelites saw the fire descend and the glory of the LORD fill the house, they knelt down with their faces to the ground on the pavement, worshiping and praising the LORD, saying, "He is good; his steadfast love endures forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king and all the people presented offerings to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon presented a sacrifice of twenty-two thousand oxen and one hundred and twenty thousand sheep. In this way, the king and all the people consecrated the house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests carried out their duties, and the Levites stood ready with the musical instruments dedicated to the Lord, which King David had provided for praising the Lord, declaring, "His faithful love endures forever." As David had instructed, they offered praise through their service. Meanwhile, the priests blew trumpets before them, and all the people of Israel stood in reverence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, Solomon consecrated the central area of the courtyard in front of the house of the LORD, for there he presented the burnt offerings and the fat portions of the peace offerings. This was necessary because the bronze altar that Solomon had made was not large enough to accommodate the burnt offerings, the grain offerings, and the fat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that same time, Solomon celebrated the festival for seven days, and all Israel joined him—a vast assembly from the entrance of Hamath to the River of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eighth day, they held a sacred assembly, for they had celebrated the dedication of the altar for seven days and observed the feast for another seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the twenty-third day of the seventh month, he dismissed the people to return to their homes, filled with joy and gladness of heart because of the goodness the LORD had shown to David, to Solomon, and to Israel, His people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Solomon completed the construction of the house of the LORD and the king’s palace. Everything he had desired to accomplish in the house of the LORD and in his own residence, he successfully brought to completion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD appeared to Solomon during the night and said to him, "I have heard your prayer, and I have chosen this place to be My house of sacrifice."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If I close the heavens so that no rain falls, or if I command locusts to consume the land, or if I send a plague among my people;</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If my people, who are identified by my name, will humble themselves, pray earnestly, seek my presence, and turn away from their sinful ways, then I will listen from heaven, forgive their sins, and restore their land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now my eyes will be open, and my ears attentive to the prayers offered in this place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have now chosen and set apart this house as holy, so that my name may remain there forever. My presence and my care will be there continually.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And as for you, if you will live your life in my presence, as David your father did, and act in accordance with everything I have commanded you, and faithfully keep my statutes and ordinances,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, I will establish the throne of your kingdom, just as I made a covenant with your father David, promising: "You will never lack a descendant to rule over Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if you turn away and abandon my statutes and commandments, which I have presented to you, and instead go and serve other gods, bowing down to worship them,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I will uproot them completely from the land I have given them, and this house, which I have consecrated for my name, I will cast out of my presence. I will make it an object of scorn and ridicule among all nations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This grand temple, though now exalted, will become a source of shock and amazement to all who pass by it. They will ask, "Why has the LORD treated this land and this temple in such a way?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The response will be: "Because they abandoned the LORD, the God of their ancestors, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and instead clung to other gods, worshiping and serving them. That is why the LORD has brought all this disaster upon them."</span></p>






</body></html>