<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\stmh1t.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f3d778e3-6420-73d8-a1b5-d95bc7921c90" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David finished speaking to Saul, Jonathan’s heart became deeply connected to David’s, and Jonathan loved him as dearly as he loved himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, Saul took him into his service and would not allow him to return to his father’s house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jonathan and David entered into a solemn agreement, because Jonathan loved David as deeply as he loved his own life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan took off the robe he was wearing and gave it to David, along with his other garments, his sword, his bow, and his belt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David went wherever Saul sent him and conducted himself with wisdom. Saul appointed him over the men of war, and David gained favor in the eyes of all the people, as well as in the eyes of Saul’s servants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David returned from defeating the Philistine, as he and the men approached, women from all the towns of Israel came out to meet King Saul. They were singing and dancing joyfully, playing tambourines and musical instruments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The women sang to one another as they danced, saying, "Saul has struck down thousands, but David has struck down tens of thousands."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul became extremely angry, and this statement greatly displeased him. He said, "They have credited David with tens of thousands, but to me they have credited only thousands. What more can he have except the kingdom itself?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From that day onward, Saul kept a watchful and suspicious eye on David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, an evil spirit sent by God came upon Saul, and he began to prophesy inside the house. Meanwhile, David was playing the lyre with his hand, as he usually did. Saul had a spear in his hand at the time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul hurled the spear, thinking, "I will pin David to the wall with it." But David dodged out of his way twice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul became fearful of David because the LORD was with David but had withdrawn His presence from Saul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Saul dismissed David from his personal service and appointed him as a commander over a thousand soldiers. David led the troops in their campaigns, going out to battle and returning before the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David conducted himself with wisdom in all his actions, and the LORD was with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, when Saul observed that David conducted himself with great wisdom, he became fearful of him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of Israel and Judah held David in high regard because he led them effectively and was actively involved in their affairs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said to David, "Look, I will give you my older daughter Merab as your wife. But you must prove yourself brave and fight the Lord's battles for me." For Saul thought, "I will not be the one to strike him down; instead, let the Philistines be the ones to kill him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Saul, "Who am I, and what is my life or my father’s family in Israel, that I should become the king’s son-in-law?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when the time came for Merab, Saul’s daughter, to be given to David as his wife, she was instead given in marriage to Adriel the Meholathite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Michal, the daughter of Saul, loved David. When Saul was told about this, it pleased him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said, "I will give her to him so that she may become a trap for him, and the Philistines may turn against him." Therefore, Saul said to David, "Today you shall become my son-in-law through one of the two."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul instructed his servants, saying, "Speak to David privately and tell him, 'The king is pleased with you, and all his servants hold you in high regard. Therefore, consider becoming the king's son-in-law.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul’s servants repeated these words to David. David responded, “Does it seem like a small matter to you to become the king’s son-in-law? I am a poor man, of little importance or reputation.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul's servants reported to him, saying, "David spoke in this way."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul instructed them, "This is what you are to say to David: 'The king does not require any dowry, but instead asks for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, as vengeance against the king's enemies.'" However, Saul's true intention was to have David killed by the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David’s servants reported these words to him, he was very pleased at the prospect of becoming the king’s son-in-law. The allotted time for this arrangement had not yet passed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, David set out with his men and attacked the Philistines, killing two hundred of them. David brought back their foreskins and presented them in full number to the king, so that he might become the king’s son-in-law. Saul then gave him his daughter Michal as his wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul observed and recognized that the LORD was with David, and that Michal, Saul’s daughter, loved him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul grew even more fearful of David, and from that time on, he remained David’s constant enemy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the leaders of the Philistines went out to battle. After they had gone out, David conducted himself with greater wisdom than all the servants of Saul, so that his reputation became highly esteemed.</span></p>






</body></html>