<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Romans Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\stnesx.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:585c99aa-d9c2-2e8b-90e5-740dfff33ff0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Romans Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, there is now no condemnation for those who are united with Christ Jesus, who do not live according to their sinful nature but instead live in alignment with the Spirit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the principle of the Spirit, which brings life through Christ Jesus, has set me free from the principle of sin and death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The law was unable to accomplish its purpose because it was weakened by human frailty. But God, by sending his own Son in the form of sinful humanity and as a sacrifice for sin, condemned sin in the flesh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that the righteous requirements of the law might be fully met in us, who live not according to the desires of the flesh, but according to the guidance of the Spirit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For those who live according to their sinful nature focus their thoughts on the desires of that nature, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the concerns of the Spirit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To focus on worldly desires leads to death, but to focus on the Spirit brings life and peace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The mindset driven by sinful desires is hostile toward God, for it does not submit to God's law, nor is it even capable of doing so.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, those who live according to their sinful nature cannot please God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you are not controlled by your sinful nature but by the Spirit, provided that the Spirit of God lives within you. If anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, they do not belong to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If Christ dwells within you, though your physical body is subject to death because of sin, the Spirit gives you life because of the righteousness that comes through faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if the Spirit of the One who raised Jesus from the dead lives within you, then the One who raised Christ from the dead will also bring life to your mortal bodies through His Spirit who dwells in you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, my fellow believers, we are under obligation—not to our sinful nature, to live according to its desires.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if you live according to your sinful nature, you will die; but if by the Spirit you put to death the misdeeds of the body, you will live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All those who are guided by the Spirit of God are indeed the children of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you have not received a spirit of slavery that leads you back into fear; instead, you have received the Spirit of adoption, through whom we cry out, "Abba, Father!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Spirit itself testifies together with our spirit that we are God's children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if we are God’s children, then we are also His heirs—heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ—provided that we share in His sufferings so that we may also share in His glory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I consider that the hardships we face in this present time are not even worth comparing to the magnificent glory that will be unveiled within us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The creation eagerly awaits with anticipation for the revealing of the children of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the creation was subjected to futility, not by its own choice, but because of the one who subjected it, yet with the hope that it would be set free.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the creation itself will also be set free from its bondage to decay and brought into the glorious freedom that belongs to the children of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For we understand that the entire creation has been groaning and enduring the pains of labor together up to this present moment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Not only creation, but we ourselves, who have received the firstfruits of the Spirit, also inwardly groan as we eagerly await our adoption as God’s children—that is, the full redemption of our bodies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We are saved through hope, but hope that is already seen is not hope at all. For why would someone hope for what they already see?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if we hope for what we do not yet see, we eagerly and patiently wait for it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same way, the Spirit comes to our aid in our weaknesses. For we do not know what we ought to pray for, but the Spirit Himself intercedes on our behalf with wordless groans that cannot be expressed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who examines the hearts knows the thoughts of the Spirit, because the Spirit pleads on behalf of God’s people in harmony with God’s will.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We understand that in all circumstances, God works everything together for the good of those who love Him, who are called according to His purpose.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For those whom God knew in advance, he also determined beforehand to be shaped into the likeness of his Son, so that his Son might be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, those whom God predestined, he also called; and those he called, he also declared righteous; and those he declared righteous, he also glorified.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What, then, should we conclude about these matters? If God is on our side, who can stand against us?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God, who did not withhold His own Son but gave Him up for us all—how will He not also, along with Him, graciously give us everything we need?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who can bring any accusation against those whom God has chosen? It is God who declares them righteous.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who is there to condemn us? It is Christ who died—more than that, who was raised to life—who is now at the right hand of God and who is also interceding on our behalf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What could ever separate us from the love of Christ? Could hardship, or distress, or persecution, or hunger, or lack of clothing, or danger, or the threat of death?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As it is written: "For your sake, we face death all day long; we are regarded as sheep destined for slaughter."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No, in all these things we are overwhelmingly victorious through the one who loved us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I am fully convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor authorities, nor things present, nor things to come,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Neither height, nor depth, nor any other created thing will have the power to separate us from the love of God that is revealed in Christ Jesus our Lord.</span></p>






</body></html>