<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Daniel Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\stpctq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:290f6bbf-5ce4-fd41-1519-3589cf5f9fac" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Daniel Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the third year of Jehoiakim's reign as king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, advanced against Jerusalem and laid siege to the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord allowed Nebuchadnezzar to overpower Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, and handed over to him some of the sacred objects from the house of God. Nebuchadnezzar took these items to the land of Shinar, to the temple of his own god, and placed them in the treasury of that temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king spoke to Ashpenaz, the chief of his court officials, instructing him to bring some of the young men from the Israelites, including those of royal descent and nobility.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Young men who were without any physical defect, handsome in appearance, skilled in all wisdom, knowledgeable, discerning in understanding, and competent to serve in the king’s palace. They were to be taught the literature and language of the Chaldeans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king assigned them a daily portion of the royal food and the wine that he himself drank. He provided for them in this way for three years, so that at the end of that time, they would be ready to serve in the king's presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Among these individuals were some from the tribe of Judah: Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The chief official of the eunuchs assigned new names to them: he gave Daniel the name Belteshazzar; Hananiah he called Shadrach; Mishael he named Meshach; and Azariah he designated as Abednego.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Daniel resolved in his heart that he would not defile himself by eating the king’s assigned food or drinking the wine he provided. So he asked the chief official for permission to avoid defiling himself in this way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now God had caused Daniel to find favor and compassionate regard with the chief official of the eunuchs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The chief official of the eunuchs said to Daniel, "I am afraid of my lord the king, who has assigned your food and drink. Why should he see your faces looking worse than those of the other young men your age? Then you would put me at risk of losing my head before the king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Daniel spoke to Melzar, the steward whom the chief official of the eunuchs had appointed over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Test your servants, I beg you, for ten days; and let them provide us with vegetables to eat and water to drink.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then let our appearance be examined in your presence, and the appearance of the young men who eat the king's assigned food. Based on what you observe, treat your servants accordingly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he agreed to their request in this matter and tested them for ten days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After ten days had passed, their faces looked healthier and more robust than those of all the other young men who had been eating the king’s assigned food.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Melzar removed the portion of their rich food and the wine they were supposed to drink, and instead provided them with vegetables.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God granted these four young men knowledge and expertise in every area of learning and wisdom. Additionally, Daniel was given the ability to understand and interpret all kinds of visions and dreams.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the conclusion of the period that the king had specified for them to be brought in, the chief official in charge of the eunuchs presented them before Nebuchadnezzar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king spoke with them, and among all of them, no one was found to be like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. As a result, they were appointed to serve in the king's presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In every matter requiring wisdom and understanding that the king consulted them about, he found them ten times more capable than all the magicians and enchanters in his entire kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Daniel remained in service until the first year of King Cyrus's reign.</span></p>






</body></html>