<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 36</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\stpzwm.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0cdfb1ab-467b-2f30-8c8f-2997995bcb9a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 36</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fourth year of Jehoiakim’s reign, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take a scroll and write on it all the words I have spoken to you concerning Israel, Judah, and all the nations, from the time I first spoke to you during the reign of Josiah up to this very day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Perhaps the people of Judah will hear about all the harm I intend to bring upon them, and each person will turn away from their wicked ways. If they do, I will forgive their wrongdoing and their sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeremiah summoned Baruch, the son of Neriah, and Baruch wrote down on a scroll, as Jeremiah dictated, all the words of the LORD that had been spoken to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeremiah instructed Baruch, saying, "I am confined and unable to enter the house of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, go and read aloud from the scroll you have written at my dictation—the words of the LORD—in the hearing of the people in the LORD’s house on the day of fasting. You shall also read them in the hearing of all the people of Judah who come from their towns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Perhaps they will bring their plea before the LORD and turn back, each one from their wicked ways, for the LORD has declared great anger and wrath against this people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Baruch, the son of Neriah, carried out everything that Jeremiah the prophet instructed him to do. He read aloud from the scroll the words of the LORD in the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fifth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, during the ninth month, a fast was declared before the LORD for all the people in Jerusalem and for all those who had come from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Baruch read aloud from the scroll the words of Jeremiah in the house of the LORD, in the room of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan the scribe. This took place in the upper courtyard, at the entrance of the New Gate of the LORD’s temple, where all the people could hear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Michaiah, the son of Gemariah and grandson of Shaphan, had heard all the words of the LORD read from the scroll,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he went down to the king’s palace and entered the room of the royal secretary. There he found all the officials gathered: Elishama the secretary, Delaiah son of Shemaiah, Elnathan son of Achbor, Gemariah son of Shaphan, Zedekiah son of Hananiah, and all the other officials.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Micaiah reported to them all the words he had heard when Baruch read the scroll aloud to the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, all the officials sent Jehudi, the son of Nethaniah, who was the son of Shelemiah, who was the son of Cushi, to Baruch, saying, “Take in your hand the scroll from which you have read to the people, and come.” So Baruch, the son of Neriah, took the scroll in his hand and went to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to him, "Sit down now and read it aloud to us." So Baruch read it to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they had heard all these words, they were filled with fear, each one of them, and they said to Baruch, "We must certainly report all these words to the king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They questioned Baruch, saying, "Tell us now, how did you write all these words as he dictated them to you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Baruch replied to them, "He spoke all these words to me aloud, and I recorded them in the book using ink."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the officials said to Baruch, "Go and hide, both you and Jeremiah, and do not let anyone know where you are."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They entered the king’s court, but they had already stored the scroll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe. Then they reported all the words of the scroll to the king, speaking them directly to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the king sent Jehudi to retrieve the scroll, and he brought it from the chamber of Elishama the scribe. Jehudi then read it aloud in the hearing of the king and all the officials who were standing beside him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king was sitting in his winter palace during the ninth month, with a fire burning in the fireplace before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what happened: When Jehudi had read three or four columns of the scroll, the king took a scribe’s knife, cut the scroll into pieces, and threw it into the fire burning in the hearth. He continued doing this until the entire scroll was completely burned up in the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet they showed no fear, nor did they tear their garments—neither the king nor any of his officials who heard all these words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Elnathan, Delaiah, and Gemariah pleaded with the king, urging him not to burn the scroll. But he refused to listen to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the king ordered Jerahmeel, the son of Hammelech, along with Seraiah, the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah, the son of Abdeel, to seize Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet. However, the LORD kept them hidden.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah after the king had burned the scroll containing the words that Baruch had written at Jeremiah's dictation. The LORD said to him:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take another scroll and write on it all the words that were on the first scroll, which Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, burned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you shall say to Jehoiakim, king of Judah, "This is what the LORD says: You burned this scroll, asking, 'Why have you written in it that the king of Babylon will surely come and destroy this land, and will cause both people and animals to vanish from it?'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says concerning Jehoiakim, king of Judah: He will have no one to succeed him on the throne of David. His corpse will be thrown out, exposed to the heat by day and the frost by night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will hold him, his descendants, and his servants accountable for their wrongdoing. I will bring upon them, as well as upon the people of Jerusalem and the inhabitants of Judah, all the disaster I have declared against them. Yet they refused to listen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeremiah took another scroll and gave it to Baruch, the son of Neriah, who served as his scribe. Baruch wrote down on it, as Jeremiah dictated, all the words of the book that Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, had burned in the fire. In addition to these, many similar words were also included.</span></p>






</body></html>