<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 39</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\stq7wy.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:05e3af96-a184-d451-f4f5-708dc02aef6c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 39</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They crafted finely woven garments from blue, purple, and scarlet yarns, designed for performing sacred duties in the holy place. They also made the sacred garments for Aaron, just as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted the ephod using gold, along with blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and finely woven linen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They hammered the gold into thin sheets and cut it into fine threads, skillfully weaving it into the blue, purple, and scarlet fabrics, as well as into the fine linen, creating intricate designs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They crafted shoulder pieces for it, designed to join it together; it was fastened at its two edges.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The intricately woven band of his ephod, which was attached to it, was made of the same materials and craftsmanship: gold, blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and finely twisted linen, just as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They crafted onyx stones, set in gold filigree, engraved like signet rings, each bearing the names of the sons of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He placed them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod, so that they would serve as memorial stones for the Israelites, just as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted the breastplate with skillful artistry, similar to the design of the ephod. It was made of gold, along with blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, and finely woven linen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The breastplate was square and made double, with each side measuring a span in length and a span in width when folded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They arranged four rows of stones in it: the first row consisted of a carnelian, a topaz, and an emerald—this was the first row.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The second row shall consist of an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The third row shall have a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The fourth row contained a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper. Each stone was set in a gold mount, securely fastened in its setting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The stones corresponded to the names of the twelve tribes of Israel, each one engraved like a seal with the name of one of the twelve tribes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They crafted chains for the breastplate, made of twisted cords, fashioned from pure gold, and attached them to its edges.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They crafted two gold settings and two gold rings, and they attached the two rings to the two ends of the breastplate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They fastened the two braided chains of gold into the two rings at the edges of the breastplate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They attached the two ends of the twisted chains to the two settings and secured them to the shoulder pieces of the ephod, positioning them at the front.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They crafted two rings of gold and attached them to the two ends of the breastpiece, along its edge on the inner side, next to the ephod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They crafted two additional gold rings and attached them to the lower sides of the ephod, near the front, directly opposite the other connecting rings, just above the skillfully woven waistband of the ephod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They fastened the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephod using a blue cord, so that the breastplate would remain securely above the skillfully woven waistband of the ephod and would not come loose from it. This was done just as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted the robe of the ephod, skillfully woven entirely from blue fabric.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was an opening in the center of the robe, like the opening of a coat of mail, with a woven edge around the opening so that it would not tear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They crafted pomegranates of blue, purple, and scarlet yarn, along with finely twisted linen, and attached them to the hem of the robe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They crafted bells from pure gold and placed them alternately with the pomegranates around the hem of the robe, so that the bells were interspersed among the pomegranates all around the edge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A bell and a pomegranate, alternating all around the hem of the robe, were to be worn while serving in the sanctuary, just as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They crafted finely woven linen garments for Aaron and his sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And a turban of fine linen, and elegant headbands of fine linen, and undergarments of finely woven linen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And a sash made of finely woven linen, with blue, purple, and scarlet threads, skillfully embroidered, just as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They crafted the sacred crown's plate from pure gold and inscribed on it an engraving, similar to the markings of a seal, which read: "HOLINESS TO THE LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They attached a blue cord to it, securing it high on the turban, just as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, all the work for the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, was completed. The Israelites carried out everything exactly as the LORD had commanded Moses; they did it just as instructed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They brought the entire tabernacle to Moses—the tent and all its furnishings, including its clasps, frames, crossbars, posts, and bases.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the outer covering made of rams' skins dyed red, and the protective covering made of fine leather, and the curtain that served as the innermost covering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ark containing the covenant tablets, along with its carrying poles, and the atonement cover.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The table, along with all its utensils, and the bread of the Presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The pure lampstand, along with its lamps, arranged properly, and all its utensils, as well as the oil for providing light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the golden altar for burning incense, the sacred anointing oil, the fragrant incense, and the curtain for the entrance of the tabernacle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bronze altar, along with its bronze grating, its poles, and all its utensils; the basin and its stand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The curtains surrounding the courtyard, along with their supporting posts and bases, the curtain for the entrance to the courtyard, its ropes, tent pegs, and all the equipment used in the service of the tabernacle—specifically for the tent of meeting—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The finely crafted garments for performing sacred duties in the holy place, along with the sacred vestments for Aaron the priest and the garments for his sons, to serve in the priestly office.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites completed all the work exactly as the LORD had commanded Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses inspected all the work, and indeed, they had completed it just as the LORD had commanded. They had done everything exactly as instructed. So Moses blessed them.</span></p>






</body></html>