<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Esther Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\strwce.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:265c3b99-1240-285a-9ffe-ce6752623e83" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Esther Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, King Ahasuerus granted Queen Esther the property of Haman, the enemy of the Jews. Mordecai was brought before the king, for Esther had revealed to the king how Mordecai was related to her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king removed his signet ring, which he had taken back from Haman, and gave it to Mordecai. Esther then appointed Mordecai to oversee all that had belonged to Haman.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Esther once again approached the king and fell at his feet, weeping as she pleaded with him to revoke the evil plan of Haman the Agagite and the scheme he had devised against the Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king extended the golden scepter toward Esther. At this, Esther rose and stood before the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She said, "If the king is willing and if I have found favor in his sight, and if the matter seems right to the king, and if I am pleasing in his eyes, let an order be written to revoke the letters devised by Haman son of Hammedatha, the Agagite, which he wrote to annihilate the Jews in all the king’s provinces."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How can I bear to witness the calamity that will befall my people? How can I endure seeing the ruin of my own family?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Ahasuerus said to Queen Esther and to Mordecai the Jew, "Listen, I have given Esther the property of Haman, and he has been hanged on the gallows because he sought to harm the Jews."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Write also to the Jews in whatever manner you see fit, in the name of the king, and seal it with the king’s signet ring. For a decree that is written in the king’s name and sealed with the king’s ring cannot be revoked by anyone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, in the third month, which is the month of Sivan, on the twenty-third day, the king’s scribes were summoned. They wrote out all that Mordecai had commanded, addressing the Jews, the governors, the officials, and the rulers of the provinces stretching from India to Ethiopia—127 provinces in all. The edict was written to each province in its own script and to each people in their own language, and to the Jews in their own script and language.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He wrote in the name of King Ahasuerus, sealed the documents with the king’s signet ring, and sent them out by couriers riding on horses, as well as on mules, camels, and swift young dromedaries.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this decree, the king authorized the Jews in every city to assemble and defend their lives. They were permitted to destroy, kill, and annihilate any armed force of any people or province that might attack them, including women and children, and to plunder their possessions as spoils of war.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On a single day throughout all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, specifically on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A written decree was issued as a command to every province and made known to all people, instructing the Jews to prepare themselves for that day to defend against and retaliate against their enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the messengers, riding on mules and camels, set out quickly, urged on by the king’s urgent command. The decree was issued from the royal palace in Susa.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mordecai left the king’s presence dressed in royal robes of blue and white, wearing a large golden crown and a garment of fine linen and purple. The city of Shushan celebrated and was filled with joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Jewish people experienced light, happiness, rejoicing, and honor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In every province and every city where the king’s command and decree reached, the Jews experienced joy, gladness, feasting, and celebration. Many of the local people even converted to Judaism, for the fear of the Jews had come upon them.</span></p>






</body></html>