<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\stt7ed.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9ba163d0-d3dd-691c-0062-d318b03395af" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twenty-third year of Joash, the son of Ahaziah, king of Judah, Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, became king over Israel in Samaria and ruled for seventeen years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed what was evil in the eyes of the LORD and continued in the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which led Israel into sin. He did not turn away from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD’s anger burned against Israel, and He handed them over to the power of Hazael, king of Aram, and to Ben-hadad, the son of Hazael, throughout their days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoahaz pleaded with the LORD, and the LORD listened to him, for He saw how severely Israel was suffering under the oppression of the king of Syria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD provided Israel with a deliverer, freeing them from the power of the Syrians. As a result, the people of Israel were able to live in their homes peacefully, just as they had in earlier times.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet they did not turn away from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, who caused Israel to sin, but continued to follow those ways. Moreover, the Asherah pole remained standing in Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He did not leave Jehoahaz with more than fifty horsemen, ten chariots, and ten thousand foot soldiers, for the king of Aram had devastated them and reduced them to dust, as though they had been threshed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Jehoahaz’s reign, including all his accomplishments and the extent of his power, are recorded in the book of the annals of the kings of Israel, are they not?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoahaz died and was buried in Samaria, and his son Joash succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Jehoash son of Jehoahaz became king over Israel in Samaria, and he reigned for sixteen years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed what was evil in the sight of the LORD and did not turn away from any of the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin. Instead, he continued in those same ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Joash, all that he accomplished, and the strength he demonstrated in his battles against Amaziah, king of Judah—are they not recorded in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joash died and was buried with his ancestors in Samaria, where the kings of Israel are laid to rest. After his death, Jeroboam succeeded him as king and took his place on the throne.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Elisha had become ill with the sickness that would eventually lead to his death. Joash, the king of Israel, went down to see him and wept over him, saying, "My father, my father! You are the true strength of Israel, its chariots and horsemen!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha said to him, "Take a bow and some arrows." So he took a bow and arrows.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to the king of Israel, "Place your hand on the bow." So the king placed his hand on it, and Elisha laid his hands over the king's hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Open the window to the east," and the man opened it. Then Elisha said, "Shoot," and he shot. Elisha declared, "This arrow represents the LORD's deliverance—deliverance from Syria. You will strike down the Syrians at Aphek until you have completely defeated them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Elisha said, "Take the arrows." So the man took them. Elisha then said to the king of Israel, "Strike the ground with them." The king struck the ground three times and stopped.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man of God became angry with him and said, "You should have struck the ground five or six times; then you would have completely defeated Syria. But now, you will only strike Syria three times."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha died and was buried. At the start of the year, raiding parties of Moabites invaded the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they were in the process of burying a man, suddenly they noticed a raiding party approaching. In their haste, they threw the man’s body into the tomb of Elisha. When the man’s body came into contact with Elisha’s bones, he immediately came back to life, stood up, and began to walk.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Hazael, the king of Aram, oppressed Israel throughout the entire reign of Jehoahaz.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD showed them kindness and had compassion on them, caring for them because of His covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He chose not to destroy them or remove them from His presence at that time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Hazael, the king of Syria, died, and his son Ben-hadad succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz, recaptured from Ben-hadad, the son of Hazael, the cities that Ben-hadad had taken from Jehoahaz, his father, during the war. Joash defeated Ben-hadad three times and successfully reclaimed the cities of Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>