<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sttjfy.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c75a7d7c-65c3-ad83-b4c8-e1f568ae5dc9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the church at Antioch, there were certain individuals who served as prophets and teachers. These included Barnabas, Simeon (who was also known as Niger), Lucius from Cyrene, Manaen (who had been raised alongside Herod the tetrarch), and Saul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they were serving the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, "Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had fasted and prayed, and placed their hands on them in blessing and commissioning, they sent them on their way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Having been sent out by the Holy Spirit, they traveled to Seleucia, and from there they set sail for Cyprus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived in Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the Jewish synagogues. They also had John with them to assist in their ministry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they traveled across the island to Paphos, they encountered a man named Bar-Jesus, a Jewish sorcerer and false prophet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This man was with the proconsul of the region, Sergius Paulus, an intelligent and discerning individual. He summoned Barnabas and Saul and expressed a desire to hear the message of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Elymas, the sorcerer (for that is the meaning of his name), opposed them, trying to turn the proconsul away from the faith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul, who is also called Paul, being filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "You are full of all deceit and wickedness, you offspring of the devil, you enemy of all that is right! Will you never stop twisting the straight paths of the Lord?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, look, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will become blind, unable to see the sun for a time. Immediately, a mist and darkness came over him, and he stumbled around, groping for someone to guide him by the hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the governor saw what had happened, he believed, amazed by the teaching of the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos, they arrived at Perga in Pamphylia. However, John left them and returned to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they left Perga, they arrived at Antioch in Pisidia. On the Sabbath day, they entered the synagogue and took their seats.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After the reading of the Law and the Prophets, the leaders of the synagogue sent a message to them, saying, "Brothers, if you have any word of encouragement or instruction for the people, please speak."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Paul stood up, motioned with his hand, and said, "People of Israel, and all of you who revere God, listen to what I have to say."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The God of the people of Israel chose our ancestors and lifted up the nation while they lived as foreigners in the land of Egypt. With great power, He led them out of that land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For about forty years, he endured their conduct in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had conquered the seven nations in the land of Canaan, he distributed their land to them by casting lots.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After that, God provided them with judges for a period of about four hundred and fifty years, until the time of Samuel the prophet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, they asked for a king, and God gave them Saul, the son of Kish, a man from the tribe of Benjamin, to rule over them for forty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After removing him, God appointed David as their king, to whom He also bore witness, saying, "I have found David, the son of Jesse, a man who aligns with My heart, and he will carry out all My purposes."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From this man's descendants, God, in keeping with His promise, has brought forth to Israel a Savior, Jesus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When John first proclaimed his message before the arrival of Jesus, he preached a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As John completed his ministry, he said, "Who do you think I am? I am not the one you are waiting for. But listen, someone is coming after me, and I am not even worthy to untie the straps of his sandals."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Fellow men and brothers, descendants of Abraham's lineage, and all of you who revere God, this message of salvation has been sent to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Jerusalem and their leaders did not recognize him, nor did they understand the words of the prophets that are read every Sabbath. Yet, by condemning him, they fulfilled the very prophecies they had heard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Although they found no grounds for a death sentence against him, they urged Pilate to have him executed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had carried out everything that was written about him, they took him down from the cross and placed him in a tomb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But God brought him back to life from death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For many days, He appeared to those who had accompanied Him from Galilee to Jerusalem, and they now serve as His witnesses to the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We bring you good news: the promise made to our ancestors has been fulfilled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God has fulfilled this promise to us, their descendants, by raising Jesus from the dead. As it is also written in the second psalm: "You are my Son; today I have become your Father."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding the fact that God raised him from the dead, never to return to decay, He spoke in this way: "I will grant you the faithful and enduring promises made to David."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, it is also said in another psalm, "You will not allow your Holy One to experience decay."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For David, after he had fulfilled his purpose in serving his own generation according to God’s plan, passed away and was buried with his ancestors, and his body experienced decay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the one whom God raised from the dead did not experience decay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let it be clearly understood by you, my fellow men and brothers, that through this man, the message of forgiveness for sins is proclaimed to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through Him, all who believe are declared righteous and freed from all the guilt of sin—something that the law of Moses could never accomplish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, be on guard so that what was spoken by the prophets does not happen to you:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, you who mock and scorn, and be astonished, for I am about to do something in your time—something so extraordinary that even if someone were to explain it to you, you would never believe it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After the Jews left the synagogue, the Gentiles urged that these teachings be shared with them on the following Sabbath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After the gathering had ended, many of the Jews and devout converts to Judaism followed Paul and Barnabas. Speaking to them, Paul and Barnabas urged them to remain steadfast in the grace of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the following Sabbath, nearly the entire city gathered to listen to the message of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Jewish people saw the large crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began to oppose what Paul was saying. They argued against his message and spoke disrespectfully, even to the point of blasphemy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Paul and Barnabas spoke boldly, saying, "It was necessary for the word of God to be proclaimed to you first. But since you reject it and consider yourselves unworthy of eternal life, we now turn to the Gentiles."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the Lord has commanded us, saying, "I have appointed you to be a light to the nations, so that you may bring salvation to the farthest corners of the earth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Gentiles heard this, they rejoiced and praised the message of the Lord. And all who were appointed to eternal life believed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the message of the Lord was proclaimed throughout the entire region.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Jewish leaders incited the devout and respected women, as well as the prominent men of the city, to oppose Paul and Barnabas. They stirred up persecution against them and drove them out of their region.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But they shook the dust from their feet as a testimony against them and went on to Iconium.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.</span></p>






</body></html>