<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\stwpko.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:58941da2-946e-46e1-0d30-1f8bc0421c38" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hiram, the king of Tyre, sent his officials to Solomon when he heard that Solomon had been anointed as king in place of his father. Hiram had always been a loyal friend to David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Solomon sent a message to Hiram, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are aware that my father David was unable to build a house for the name of the LORD his God because of the wars that surrounded him on every side, until the LORD subdued his enemies under his control.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But now the LORD my God has granted me peace on every side, so that there is no adversary or threat to be found.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, I intend to build a house dedicated to the name of the LORD my God, just as the LORD promised my father David, saying, “Your son, whom I will place on your throne to succeed you, will build a house for my name.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I now ask that you issue a command to have cedar trees cut for me from Lebanon. My workers will join your workers, and I will pay you whatever wages you set for your servants. You know as well as I do that there is no one among us skilled in cutting timber like the Sidonians.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Hiram heard Solomon’s message, he was overjoyed and said, “Praise the LORD today, who has given David a wise son to rule over this great nation!”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hiram sent a message to Solomon, saying, "I have carefully considered the request you sent to me, and I will fulfill all your desires regarding the cedar and fir timber."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My workers will transport the timber from Lebanon down to the sea, and I will have it shipped by sea on rafts to the location you designate for me. There, I will have the timber unloaded, and you will take possession of it. In return, you will fulfill my request by providing food for my household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Hiram supplied Solomon with cedar and cypress wood, fulfilling all that he requested.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon provided Hiram with twenty thousand measures of wheat as food for his household, along with twenty measures of pure oil. This was the annual provision that Solomon gave to Hiram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD granted Solomon wisdom, just as He had promised him. There was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and the two of them formed a covenant together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon conscripted a workforce from all of Israel, and the total number of men drafted was thirty thousand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He assigned them to work in Lebanon, with ten thousand men rotating each month. They would spend one month in Lebanon and then two months at home. Adoniram was in charge of overseeing the labor force.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon had seventy thousand laborers who carried heavy loads and eighty thousand stonecutters working in the mountains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In addition to the chief officials appointed by Solomon to oversee the project, there were three thousand three hundred supervisors who managed the people doing the work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king gave the order, and they brought large, valuable, and precisely cut stones to lay the foundation of the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon's workers and Hiram's workers cut and shaped the stones, and the stonecutters prepared them. In this way, they readied both the timber and the stones to construct the house.</span></p>






</body></html>