<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\stx198.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d73780f4-fe2f-8fb0-0afa-386080c7f1a2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests, who are Levites, and the entire tribe of Levi, will not receive a portion or inheritance along with the rest of Israel. Instead, they shall live on the offerings presented to the LORD by fire, and this will be their inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, they shall not receive any portion of land among their brothers; the LORD himself is their inheritance, just as he has promised them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the portion that the priests are to receive from the people, from those who offer a sacrifice, whether it is an ox or a sheep. They must give the priest the shoulder, the two cheeks, and the stomach.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must give to him the first portion of your grain, your new wine, and your olive oil, as well as the first shearing of your sheep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD your God has chosen him from among all your tribes to stand and serve in the name of the LORD—both he and his descendants forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a Levite comes from any of your towns throughout all of Israel, where he has been living, and arrives with a wholehearted desire to the place that the LORD has chosen,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he shall serve in the name of the LORD his God, just as all his fellow Levites do, who stand before the LORD to carry out their duties.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They shall each receive equal portions of food, in addition to what comes from the sale of their inherited property.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you enter the land that the LORD your God is giving you, you must not adopt the detestable practices of the nations there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not allow anyone among you to sacrifice their son or daughter by burning them in fire, nor permit anyone to practice divination, fortune-telling, interpreting omens, sorcery, or witchcraft.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Or one who practices sorcery, or seeks guidance from spirits, or consults with mediums, or engages in witchcraft, or calls upon the dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All who engage in these practices are detestable to the LORD, and it is because of these detestable acts that the LORD your God is driving them out before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must be wholehearted and blameless in your devotion to the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The nations you are about to possess have listened to those who practice divination and seek omens. But as for you, the LORD your God has not permitted you to act in such a way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD your God will raise up for you a prophet from among your own people, from your fellow Israelites, one like me. You must listen to him. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">According to everything you requested of the LORD your God at Horeb on the day of the gathering, when you said, "Do not let me hear the voice of the LORD my God again, nor let me see this great fire anymore, or I will die."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "What they have spoken is right and good."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will raise up for them a prophet from among their own people, like you, and I will place my words in his mouth. He will speak to them everything that I command him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen that whoever refuses to listen to the words that he will speak in my name, I will hold them accountable.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if any prophet dares to speak a message in my name that I have not commanded them to speak, or if they speak in the name of other gods, that prophet must be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if you wonder in your heart, "How can we recognize when a message has not been spoken by the LORD?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When a prophet speaks in the name of the LORD, if what they predict does not happen or come to pass, it is a message the LORD has not spoken. That prophet has spoken presumptuously; you must not fear or be intimidated by them.</span></p>






</body></html>