<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 35</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sty1r5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8b08a741-b12b-f39e-8ade-bff9aee89f18" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 35</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab, by the Jordan River near Jericho, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instruct the Israelites to allocate to the Levites, from the inheritance of their own land, cities for them to live in. Additionally, you must provide the Levites with the surrounding pasturelands for these cities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cities shall be given to them for their dwelling places, and the surrounding pasturelands shall be for their livestock, their possessions, and all their animals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The open land surrounding the cities that you are to give to the Levites shall extend outward from the city wall for a distance of one thousand cubits in every direction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to measure two thousand cubits outside the city on the east side, two thousand cubits on the south side, two thousand cubits on the west side, and two thousand cubits on the north side, with the city at the center. This area shall serve as the open land surrounding the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004852"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Among the cities you are to give to the Levites, there shall be six cities designated as places of refuge, which you are to set apart for anyone who kills another unintentionally, so that they may flee there for safety. In addition to these, you are to provide forty-two other cities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004853"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, all the cities that you are to give to the Levites shall total forty-eight cities, along with the pasturelands surrounding them. You must give these to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004854"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cities that you are to provide shall come from the holdings of the Israelites. From those who have much, you shall take many cities, and from those who have little, you shall take fewer. Each tribe shall contribute from its own cities to the Levites, in proportion to the inheritance it has received.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004855"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004856"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and tell them: When you cross the Jordan River and enter the land of Canaan,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004857"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall designate certain cities to serve as cities of refuge for yourselves, so that anyone who unintentionally kills another person may flee there for safety.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004858"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These cities will serve as places of refuge for you, providing safety from the avenger, so that the person who has killed someone may not die before standing before the community for judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004859"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall set aside six of the cities you provide as places of refuge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004860"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall designate three cities on this side of the Jordan, and three cities in the land of Canaan, which shall serve as cities of refuge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004861"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These six cities shall serve as a place of refuge, both for the Israelites and for the foreigner and temporary resident living among them. Anyone who unintentionally kills another person may flee there for safety.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004862"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone strikes another person with an iron weapon, causing death, that person is a murderer. The murderer must certainly be executed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004863"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone strikes another person with a stone that could cause death, and the person dies as a result, the one who threw the stone is a murderer. The murderer must certainly be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004864"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone strikes another person with a wooden weapon that could cause death, and the person dies as a result, the striker is a murderer. The murderer must certainly be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The avenger of blood shall personally put the murderer to death; when encountering the murderer, the avenger shall kill them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if he pushes him out of hatred, or intentionally throws something at him with the intent to harm, and he dies as a result,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone strikes another person in hostility with their hand, causing death, the one who struck the blow must certainly be put to death, for they are a murderer. The avenger of blood shall kill the murderer when they encounter them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if he pushes him suddenly without hostility, or throws something at him unintentionally without premeditation,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Or if someone throws a stone that could cause death without seeing the person, and it strikes and kills them, and they were not an enemy nor intended any harm—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the community must decide between the one who caused the death and the avenger of blood, following these established rulings:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The community must protect the one who caused the death from the hand of the avenger of blood, and the community must return him to the city of refuge where he fled. He must remain there until the death of the high priest who was anointed with the sacred oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if the person who caused the death ever goes beyond the boundary of the city of refuge where they fled for safety,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the avenger of blood finds the slayer outside the boundaries of the city of refuge and kills him, the avenger will not be guilty of murder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because the person must stay in the city of refuge until the high priest dies. However, after the high priest’s death, the one who caused the death may return to the land they own.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, these instructions shall serve as a permanent regulation for you throughout all your generations, wherever you live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone kills another person, the murderer must be put to death based on the testimony of witnesses. However, no one shall be executed on the testimony of a single witness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, you must not accept any form of compensation or ransom for the life of a murderer who is guilty of a capital offense. Such a person must certainly be put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not accept any payment or compensation for the person who has fled to a city of refuge, allowing them to return to live in their own land before the death of the high priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must not defile the land where you live, for bloodshed pollutes the land. The land cannot be purified from the blood that has been shed upon it, except by the blood of the one who shed it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not pollute the land where you will live, the land in which I reside, for I, the LORD, dwell among the people of Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>