<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\su29o7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4a714644-571a-1bd5-8209-95dbaec14154" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007420"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Samuel took a flask of oil, poured it over Saul’s head, kissed him, and said, “Has not the LORD anointed you to be ruler over His people, His chosen possession?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007421"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you leave me today, you will come across two men near Rachel’s tomb in the territory of Benjamin at Zelzah. They will say to you, “The donkeys you went to search for have been found. And now your father has stopped worrying about the donkeys and is anxious about you, saying, ‘What should I do about my son?’”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you will continue on from there and come to the plain of Tabor. There, three men will meet you as they are going up to worship God at Bethel. One of them will be carrying three young goats, another will be carrying three loaves of bread, and the third will be carrying a skin of wine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will greet you and present you with two loaves of bread, which you are to accept from their hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, you will come to the hill of God, where there is a Philistine outpost. When you arrive at the city, you will encounter a group of prophets coming down from the high place. They will be playing musical instruments—a harp, a tambourine, a flute, and a lyre—as they go, and they will be prophesying.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Spirit of the LORD will come powerfully upon you, and you will prophesy along with them, and you will be transformed into a different person.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When these signs come to pass, act according to the opportunity that arises, for God is with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must go down ahead of me to Gilgal, and I will come down to you there to present burnt offerings and to sacrifice peace offerings. Wait there for seven days until I come to you and show you what you are to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so it happened that when he turned away from Samuel to leave, God changed his heart. And all the signs that were foretold came to pass on that very day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived at the hill, a group of prophets came out to meet him. Then the Spirit of God came powerfully upon him, and he began to prophesy among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all those who had known Saul previously saw that he was now prophesying among the prophets, the people said to one another, "What has happened to the son of Kish? Is Saul now one of the prophets?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then someone from that place responded, "But who is their father?" Because of this, it became a saying: "Is Saul also among the prophets?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he finished prophesying, he went to the sacred high place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul’s uncle asked him and his servant, “Where did you go?” Saul replied, “We went to look for the donkeys, but when we couldn’t find them anywhere, we went to Samuel.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul’s uncle asked him, “Please tell me what Samuel said to you.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said to his uncle, "He clearly told us that the donkeys had been found." But concerning the matter of the kingship, about which Samuel had spoken, he did not tell him anything.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel gathered all the people to assemble before the LORD at Mizpah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to the Israelites, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: I brought Israel up out of Egypt, and I rescued you from the power of the Egyptians and from the control of all the kingdoms and those who oppressed you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today, you have rejected your God, who has personally delivered you from all your troubles and hardships, yet you have said to Him, “No, but appoint a king over us.” Now, therefore, gather yourselves before the LORD by your tribes and by your clans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Samuel had gathered all the tribes of Israel together, the tribe of Benjamin was chosen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the tribe of Benjamin was brought forward by their families, the family of Matri was chosen, and Saul, the son of Kish, was selected. But when they searched for him, he could not be found.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they inquired further of the LORD, asking whether the man would still come there. And the LORD replied, "Look, he has hidden himself among the supplies."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They hurried and brought him from there. When he stood among the people, he was taller than anyone else from his shoulders upward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel addressed all the people, saying, "Do you see the one whom the LORD has chosen? There is no one like him among all the people." Then all the people shouted and said, "Long live the king!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Samuel explained to the people the regulations and principles of the kingship, and he recorded them in a book, which he placed before the LORD. After this, Samuel dismissed all the people, sending each one back to their own home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul returned to his home in Gibeah, accompanied by a group of men whose hearts God had moved.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the worthless and wicked men said, "How can this man save us?" They looked down on him with contempt and did not bring him any gifts. Yet, he remained silent.</span></p>






</body></html>