<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Zephaniah Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\su4pfc.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:125ccdab-fb96-19cf-c12e-3499a2649a64" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Zephaniah Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Assemble yourselves, yes, come together, O nation without honor or favor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before the decree takes effect, before the day vanishes like chaff, before the LORD's fierce anger overtakes you, before the day of the LORD's wrath comes upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Seek the LORD, all you who are humble and obedient on the earth, those who have carried out His justice. Pursue righteousness, pursue humility; perhaps you will be sheltered on the day of the LORD’s wrath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gaza will be abandoned, and Ashkelon will become a wasteland. Ashdod will be driven out in broad daylight, and Ekron will be utterly uprooted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Disaster will come upon you who dwell along the seacoast, you people of the Cherethites! The word of the LORD is directed against you. O Canaan, land of the Philistines, I will utterly destroy you, leaving no one to live there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The coastal region will become a place of habitation, with shelters and huts for shepherds, and enclosures for their flocks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land along the coast will belong to the remnant of the house of Judah; they will graze their flocks there. In the evening, they will rest in the houses of Ashkelon, for the LORD their God will come to their aid and restore them from their captivity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have heard the insults of Moab and the taunts of the Ammonites, by which they have mocked my people and arrogantly boasted against their territory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, as surely as I live, declares the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, Moab will become like Sodom, and the people of Ammon like Gomorrah—a place overrun with weeds, filled with salt pits, and left in perpetual ruin. The survivors of my people will plunder them, and the remnant of my people will take possession of their land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what they will receive for their arrogance, because they have insulted and exalted themselves against the people of the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will inspire awe and fear among them, for He will utterly destroy all the gods of the earth. Then all people, from every corner of the earth—even those in the distant islands of the nations—will bow down and worship Him, each from their own place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You Ethiopians as well, you will be struck down by my sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will extend his power against the north and bring destruction upon Assyria. He will turn Nineveh into a wasteland, as dry and barren as a desert.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And flocks will rest peacefully within her, along with all the wild animals of the nations. Both the cormorant and the bittern will roost in the tops of her pillars; their calls will echo from the windows, and desolation will mark the doorways. For the cedar paneling will be stripped away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the city that once celebrated in pride, living without a care, boasting in its heart, "I am supreme, and there is no other like me!" But now, how it has been reduced to ruin, a desolate place where wild animals rest! Everyone who passes by will mock it, shaking their heads in scorn and disbelief.</span></p>






</body></html>