<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 24</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\su6a0h.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:acb9f7db-c228-7dbc-a81a-6e9fb964f014" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 24</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Balaam realized that the LORD was pleased to bless Israel, he did not go as he had done before to seek omens or signs. Instead, he turned his attention toward the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balaam looked up and saw Israel camped in their tents, arranged by their tribes. Then the Spirit of God came upon him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he began his oracle, saying: "Balaam, son of Beor, has spoken, the man whose eyes are truly open has declared:"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He declared, having heard the words of God and seen the vision of the Almighty, falling into a deep spiritual state, yet with his eyes wide open.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How beautiful are your dwellings, O Jacob, and your tents, O Israel!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Like the valleys that stretch out wide, like gardens flourishing by the riverbank, like the fragrant trees of aloes planted by the LORD, and like towering cedars beside the waters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will pour out water from his buckets, and his descendants will be abundant like waters spread far and wide. His king will rise to greater heights than Agag, and his kingdom will be lifted up in honor and power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God led him out of Egypt; he possesses strength like that of a wild ox. He will devour the nations that are his enemies, crush their bones, and pierce them through with his arrows.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crouches, he lies down like a lion, like a mighty lion—who dares to rouse him? Blessed are those who bless you, and cursed are those who curse you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balak became furious with Balaam and clapped his hands in anger. He said to Balaam, "I summoned you to curse my enemies, but instead, you have blessed them fully—not once, but three times!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, go back to your own place. I had intended to honor you greatly, but the LORD has prevented you from receiving that honor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Balaam said to Balak, "Did I not also speak to your messengers whom you sent to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if Balak were to give me his house filled with silver and gold, I could not go beyond the command of the LORD to do anything, whether good or bad, based on my own will. I will speak only what the LORD says.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, listen carefully: I am returning to my people. But come, and I will inform you about what this nation will do to your people in the days to come.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he began his oracle and said: "Balaam, son of Beor, has spoken, the man whose eyes are truly open has declared:"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He declared, having heard the words of God and possessing the knowledge of the Most High, who beheld the vision of the Almighty, falling into a trance yet with his eyes wide open.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will see him, though not in the present; I will behold him, though not near. A star will arise from Jacob, and a scepter will rise from Israel. He will strike down the borders of Moab and destroy all the defiant people of Sheth. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Edom will become a possession, and Seir, its stronghold, will also fall into the hands of its enemies. Meanwhile, Israel will act with strength and courage.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Jacob will arise a ruler who will exercise authority and bring destruction to the remnant of the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he gazed upon Amalek, he proclaimed his oracle, saying, "Amalek was once the foremost among nations, but its final destiny is utter destruction, vanishing forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balaam looked upon the Kenites and began his prophetic message, saying, "Your dwelling place is secure, and your nest is set in the rock."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Kenite will be destroyed, until Assyria takes you away as captives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he began his proclamation, saying, "Woe! Who can survive when God carries out such things?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ships will come from the coast of Kittim, and they will bring distress upon Assyria and trouble upon Eber. But they too will ultimately face destruction and perish forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Balaam got up and left, returning to his home, while Balak also went on his way.</span></p>






</body></html>