<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Lamentations Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\su7lge.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:aaa751d7-34a2-4a6a-e9de-7ef38fb597d8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Lamentations Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How the gold has lost its luster! How the purest gold has been tarnished! The sacred stones of the sanctuary are now scattered at every street corner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The noble children of Zion, once valued as pure gold—how they are now regarded as mere clay jars, the work of a potter’s hands!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even the sea creatures nurse their young, tenderly feeding their offspring. But the people of my nation have become heartless, as unfeeling as ostriches in the desert.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The tongue of the nursing infant sticks to the roof of its mouth from thirst; the little ones beg for bread, but no one breaks it for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who once dined on fine foods now lie destitute in the streets; those who were raised in luxury now cling to piles of refuse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The penalty for the guilt of my people’s daughter is more severe than the penalty for the sin of Sodom, which was overthrown in an instant, with no one lifting a hand to help her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her consecrated ones were purer than snow, whiter than milk; their bodies were more radiant than rubies, their appearance as polished as sapphire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their appearance is darker than soot; they are unrecognizable in the streets. Their skin clings tightly to their bones, dried up and shriveled, like a withered stick.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who are killed by the sword are better off than those who die from hunger; for the latter waste away, pierced by the lack of produce from the fields.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The compassionate hands of women have boiled their own children; they became their food during the devastation of my people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord has fully expressed His wrath; He has poured out His intense anger and ignited a fire in Zion, which has consumed its very foundations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The rulers of the earth and all who dwell in the world would never have believed that an adversary or enemy could breach the gates of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the sins of her prophets and the wrongdoing of her priests, who have shed the blood of the innocent within her midst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have stumbled blindly through the streets, defiling themselves with blood, to the point that no one could even touch their clothing without becoming unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They called out to them, saying, "Go away! This place is unclean; leave, do not touch it!" When they fled and wandered, they declared among the nations, "They will no longer dwell here."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD's wrath has scattered them; He will no longer show them favor. They showed no respect for the priests and gave no honor to the elders.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For us, our eyes grow weary, looking in vain for help; in our vigilance, we have waited for a nation that cannot deliver us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They pursue us relentlessly, so that we cannot walk safely in our streets. Our end is near; our days are complete, for our time of judgment has arrived.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our enemies are faster than the eagles of the sky: they chased us over the mountains and set ambushes for us in the wilderness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who was like the breath of our life, the LORD’s anointed, has been captured in their traps—the one about whom we said, “Under his protection we will live among the nations.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be joyful and celebrate, O daughter of Edom, you who live in the land of Uz. The cup of judgment will also come to you; you will drink from it and become intoxicated, and you will be stripped bare.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your time of punishment is complete, O daughter of Zion; He will no longer exile you into captivity. But He will bring judgment upon your iniquity, O daughter of Edom; He will expose and lay bare your sins.</span></p>






</body></html>