<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\su7xrm.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e283bb8f-e87a-189d-41a2-ce0a55255eff" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Solomon spent thirteen years constructing his own palace, and he completed the entire structure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also constructed the House of the Forest of Lebanon. It was one hundred cubits long, fifty cubits wide, and thirty cubits high, built with four rows of cedar pillars, and cedar beams were laid upon the pillars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ceiling was overlaid with cedar above the beams, which rested upon forty-five pillars, arranged in rows of fifteen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The structure had windows arranged in three rows, with each set of windows aligned directly opposite the others in three tiers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the doorways and their frames were square, as were the windows. The windows were arranged in three tiers, with each tier directly opposite the corresponding tier, allowing light to align with light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed a porch supported by pillars, measuring fifty cubits in length and thirty cubits in width. This porch stood in front of the main structure, with its pillars and the heavy crossbeam positioned at the forefront.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he constructed a hall for the throne where he would administer justice, known as the Hall of Judgment. It was paneled with cedar from floor to ceiling.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The house where Solomon lived had an inner courtyard behind the portico, constructed in the same manner. Solomon also built a house for Pharaoh’s daughter, whom he had married, and it was similar in design to this portico.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All these were made of expensive stones, precisely cut to measure, shaped with saws both on the inner and outer surfaces. This work extended from the foundation all the way up to the top, and similarly on the exterior facing the great courtyard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The foundation was constructed with expensive stones, including massive stones measuring ten cubits and eight cubits in length.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Above were precious stones, cut to precise dimensions, and cedar beams.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The large courtyard surrounding the temple was constructed with three layers of cut stone and one layer of cedar beams. This design was used both for the inner courtyard of the house of the LORD and for the porch of the temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon sent messengers to bring Hiram from Tyre.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was the son of a widow from the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man from Tyre, a skilled craftsman in bronze. He was endowed with great wisdom, understanding, and expertise to carry out all kinds of work in bronze. He came to King Solomon and carried out all the work assigned to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He made two bronze pillars, each eighteen cubits high, and a measuring line of twelve cubits could encircle each of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted two capitals of cast bronze to place on top of the pillars. Each capital was five cubits high.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they crafted latticework nets and interwoven chains for the capitals that were on top of the pillars—seven for one capital and seven for the other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted the pillars and made two rows of decorative latticework around each network to cover the capitals on top, adorned with pomegranates. He did the same for the other capital.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The capitals on top of the pillars were designed with lily motifs, located in the porch, and measured four cubits in height.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The capitals on top of the two pillars were also adorned with pomegranates, positioned above the rounded section that was next to the latticework. There were two hundred pomegranates arranged in rows all around each capital.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He erected the pillars at the entrance of the temple. He set up the pillar on the right side and named it Jachin, and he set up the pillar on the left side and named it Boaz.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the top of the pillars, there was decorative work shaped like lilies. In this way, the craftsmanship of the pillars was completed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He crafted a large cast metal basin, measuring ten cubits from rim to rim. It was perfectly round, and its height was five cubits. A measuring line of thirty cubits could encircle it completely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Around the rim of the basin, encircling it completely, there were ornamental protrusions, spaced at intervals of ten per cubit, surrounding the entire circumference. These protrusions were cast in two parallel rows, formed as part of the basin when it was originally cast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The structure rested on twelve oxen, with three facing north, three facing west, three facing south, and three facing east. The basin was placed on top of them, and all their hindquarters were turned inward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The structure was a handbreadth in thickness, and its rim was crafted like the rim of a cup, adorned with lily blossoms. It held a capacity of two thousand baths.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed ten stands of bronze; each stand was four cubits long, four cubits wide, and three cubits high.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The construction of the stands was as follows: they had panels, and the panels were set between the frames.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the panels between the frames were carvings of lions, oxen, and cherubim. Above and below the lions and oxen were decorative wreaths, skillfully crafted in relief. The panels themselves were set on a base, and beneath the lions and oxen were additional ornamental designs, finely detailed and delicately made.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each stand had four bronze wheels with bronze axles, and at the four corners were supports. These supports were cast as part of the stand, with decorative panels attached to the sides. Beneath the basin, the supports were fashioned with ornamental work, positioned beside the attached panels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The opening of the basin within the capital at the top was one cubit wide, and its rim was round, fashioned like the base, measuring a cubit and a half. Additionally, on the rim of the basin were engraved panels with borders, square in shape, not round.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Beneath the panels were four wheels, and the axles of the wheels were attached to the stand. Each wheel was one and a half cubits in height.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The construction of the wheels resembled that of a chariot wheel: their axles, rims, spokes, and hubs were all cast from molten metal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were four supports at the four corners of each stand, and the supports were part of the stand itself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the top of the stand, there was a circular rim half a cubit high. The supports and panels of the stand were all of one piece with this rim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the panels of its ledges and on its borders, he carved cherubim, lions, and palm trees, each in proper proportion, with decorative designs surrounding them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, he constructed the ten stands: each one was made from a single casting, with the same dimensions and identical size.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he made ten basins of bronze; each basin held forty baths, and each basin measured four cubits. There was one basin for each of the ten stands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He placed five stands on the right side of the temple and five stands on the left side of the temple. Then he set the large basin on the right side of the temple, toward the southeast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hiram crafted the basins, the shovels, and the bowls. In this way, Hiram completed all the work he had undertaken for King Solomon in service to the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The two pillars, along with the two bowl-shaped capitals on top of them; and the two latticeworks that covered the two bowl-shaped capitals atop the pillars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were four hundred pomegranates for the two lattice designs, with two rows of pomegranates for each lattice, to cover the two bowl-shaped capitals on top of the pillars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the ten stands, along with the ten basins placed upon the stands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And there was one large basin, with twelve oxen supporting it beneath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The pots, the shovels, and the bowls—all these utensils that Hiram crafted for King Solomon for the house of the LORD—were made of polished bronze.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king had them cast in the clay ground of the Jordan Valley, between Succoth and Zarethan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon did not weigh any of the vessels because there were so many of them; the amount of bronze was beyond measure, and its total weight could not be determined.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon crafted all the items that were to be used in the house of the LORD: the golden altar and the golden table on which the bread of the Presence was placed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were lampstands made of pure gold, five placed on the right side and five on the left, positioned in front of the inner sanctuary. Each lampstand was adorned with decorative flowers, and the lamps and their gold tongs were also made of gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bowls, the snuffers, the basins, the ladles, and the incense burners were all made of pure gold. The hinges for the doors—both for the entrance to the inner sanctuary, the Most Holy Place, and for the doors of the main hall of the temple—were also crafted from gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Thus, all the work that King Solomon undertook for the house of the Lord was completed. Solomon then brought in the sacred items that his father David had dedicated—the silver, the gold, and the various vessels—and placed them among the treasuries of the house of the Lord.</span></p>






</body></html>