<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 34</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\suap49.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d3fadc7c-8bcb-2f8f-821a-5c310b82978c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 34</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Cut out two stone tablets like the first ones, and I will write on them the same words that were on the first tablets, which you shattered."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prepare yourself and be ready by morning. Then, go up to Mount Sinai in the morning and present yourself before me at the summit of the mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one is to go up with you, and no one should be seen anywhere on the mountain. Do not allow the flocks or herds to graze near the mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses carved two stone tablets like the first ones. Then, early in the morning, he went up Mount Sinai, just as the LORD had instructed him, carrying the two stone tablets in his hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD came down in the cloud and stood there with him, and He declared the name of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD passed in front of him and declared, "The LORD, the LORD God, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, and overflowing with steadfast love and faithfulness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shows steadfast love to thousands, forgiving wrongdoing, rebellion, and sin. Yet He does not leave the guilty unpunished, bringing the consequences of the parents' sins upon their children and grandchildren, even to the third and fourth generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses quickly bowed his head to the ground and worshiped.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "If I have now found favor in your sight, O Lord, I ask that you, my Lord, would go with us. For this is a stubborn and rebellious people. Please forgive our wrongdoing and our sin, and accept us as your own possession."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said, "Listen, I am establishing a covenant. In the presence of all your people, I will perform extraordinary wonders, the likes of which have never been seen anywhere on earth or in any nation. All the people among whom you live will witness the work of the LORD, for what I am about to do with you is awe-inspiring and profound."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pay careful attention to what I command you today. Take note: I am driving out before you the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful not to make any agreement with the people of the land where you are going, or it will become a trap for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must demolish their altars, smash their sacred pillars, and cut down their Asherah poles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not worship any other god, for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a God who demands exclusive devotion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful not to make an agreement with the people of the land, for if you do, they will lead you astray to worship their gods and offer sacrifices to them. Then, if someone invites you and you eat from their sacrifice, you will be drawn into their idolatry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you take their daughters as wives for your sons, and their daughters engage in idolatry by worshiping their gods, they will lead your sons to do the same, causing them to turn away from the Lord and follow their gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not make for yourself any idols cast from metal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must observe the Festival of Unleavened Bread. For seven days, you are to eat bread made without yeast, as I have commanded you, during the appointed time in the month of Abib. For it was in the month of Abib that you came out of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every firstborn that opens the womb is mine, and every firstborn male among your livestock, whether ox or sheep.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the firstborn of a donkey you must redeem by offering a lamb in its place. If you do not redeem it, you must break its neck. Every firstborn of your sons you must redeem. And no one is to appear before me without bringing an offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall work for six days, but on the seventh day you shall rest. Even during plowing time and harvest, you must observe this rest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to celebrate the Festival of Weeks, which marks the first harvest of wheat, and the Festival of Ingathering, which takes place at the close of the year.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Three times a year, all your males must present themselves before the Lord, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will drive out the nations before you and expand your territory. No one will covet your land when you go up three times a year to appear before the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not present the blood of my offering with anything containing yeast, nor shall the sacrifice of the Passover feast remain until morning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must bring the very first produce of your land to the house of the LORD your God. You must not boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Write down these words, for based on the content of these words, I have established a covenant with you and with Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He remained there with the LORD for forty days and forty nights; he did not eat any bread or drink any water. During that time, he wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant—the Ten Commandments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Moses descended from Mount Sinai with the two tablets of the testimony in his hands—as he came down from the mountain—he was unaware that the skin of his face was radiant because he had been speaking with God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Aaron and all the Israelites saw Moses, they noticed that the skin of his face was radiant, and they were too afraid to approach him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses summoned them, and Aaron along with all the leaders of the community came back to him. Then Moses spoke with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, all the people of Israel approached, and Moses gave them all the commands that the LORD had spoken to him on Mount Sinai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when Moses had finished speaking with them, he placed a veil over his face.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Moses entered the presence of the LORD to speak with Him, he would remove the veil until he came out. After speaking with the LORD, he would return and deliver to the Israelites the commands he had received.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites saw Moses' face, and they noticed that the skin of his face was radiant. So Moses would cover his face with a veil again until he went in to speak with the Lord.</span></p>






</body></html>