<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 44</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\suiq81.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:78ad6f7b-aa8a-a245-b96c-cabc1fe8fb05" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 44</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now listen, Jacob, my servant, and Israel, whom I have chosen:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD, who created you and formed you from the womb, who will help you, declares: Do not be afraid, Jacob, my servant, and you, Jesurun, whom I have chosen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will provide water to those who are thirsty, and streams to the parched land. I will pour out my Spirit upon your descendants and my blessing upon your children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will grow and flourish like grass in a meadow, like willows thriving beside streams of water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One person will declare, "I belong to the LORD," while another will identify themselves by the name of Jacob. Yet another will write with their own hand, dedicating themselves to the LORD, and will take on the name of Israel as their own.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the LORD of hosts, declares: I am the first, and I am the last; apart from me, there is no God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who is like me? Let them proclaim it and declare it, and set it forth in order before me, since I established the ancient people. And as for the things that are to come and will happen, let them announce them to the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not fear or be afraid. Have I not told you from the beginning and made it known? You are my witnesses. Is there any god besides me? No, there is no other god; I know of none.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who craft carved idols are all engaged in futility; their cherished creations are worthless and bring no benefit. They themselves are their own witnesses, yet they fail to see or understand anything. As a result, they will be put to shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who has crafted a god or cast an idol that is utterly worthless?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, all his companions will be put to shame, and the craftsmen are merely human. Let them all assemble and take their stand; yet they will tremble with fear and be brought to shame together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The blacksmith uses tongs to work the metal in the coals, shaping it with hammers and exerting the strength of his arms. Yet, he grows hungry, and his strength wanes; he drinks no water and becomes weary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The carpenter stretches out his measuring line; he marks out the wood with precision. He shapes it with planes and carefully outlines it with a compass, crafting it into the likeness of a human figure, fashioned with the beauty of a person, so that it may stand in a house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He cuts down cedars for himself, and selects the cypress and the oak, strengthening them among the trees of the forest. He plants an ash tree, and the rain helps it grow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then it becomes fuel for a person to burn: they take some of it and warm themselves; indeed, they light it and bake bread. They even fashion it into a god and bow down to it; they make it into an idol and worship it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He burns part of it in the fire; with another part, he cooks meat and eats it. He roasts his food and is satisfied. He even warms himself and says, "Ah, I am warm; I feel the heat of the fire!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining portion of the wood he shapes into a god, a carved idol. He bows down before it, worships it, and prays to it, saying, "Save me, for you are my god."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have neither known nor comprehended, for He has closed their eyes so they cannot see, and hardened their hearts so they cannot understand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one stops to think deeply, nor is there any knowledge or understanding to reflect and say, "I burned part of it in the fire; I even baked bread on its coals, roasted meat, and ate it. Should I then take what remains and turn it into something detestable? Should I bow down to a block of wood?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He feeds on ashes; his deluded heart has led him astray, so that he cannot save himself or even ask, "Is there not a falsehood in what I hold dear?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remember these things, O Jacob and Israel, for you are my servant. I have created you; you are my servant. O Israel, you will never be forgotten by me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have wiped away your transgressions like a heavy cloud, and your sins like a passing mist. Come back to me, for I have redeemed you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sing, O heavens, for the LORD has accomplished it; shout for joy, O depths of the earth! Burst into song, you mountains, O forests, and every tree within them! For the LORD has redeemed Jacob and displayed His glory in Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says, your Redeemer, the One who formed you from the womb: I am the LORD, the Maker of all things, who alone stretches out the heavens and spreads out the earth by Myself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He nullifies the signs of deceitful prophets and drives diviners to madness; He turns the wisdom of the wise into folly and makes their knowledge seem foolish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He fulfills the word of His servant and carries out the purpose of His messengers. He declares to Jerusalem, "You will be inhabited," and to the cities of Judah, "You will be rebuilt, and I will restore your ruined places."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who commands the depths, saying, "Be dry," and declares, "I will dry up your rivers."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the one who declares of Cyrus, "He is my chosen instrument, and he will accomplish all that I desire." He will say to Jerusalem, "You shall be rebuilt," and to the temple, "Your foundation shall be established."</span></p>






</body></html>