<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sul18f.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8344993c-5fe6-481a-cdfa-322d0e6a4537" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 18</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008480"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David counted the people who were with him and appointed leaders over them, assigning commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds to oversee them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008481"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David divided his forces into three groups, placing one-third under the command of Joab, one-third under Abishai, the son of Zeruiah and Joab’s brother, and one-third under Ittai the Gittite. Then the king declared to the troops, “I myself will also go out with you.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people responded, "You must not go out to battle. If we flee, they will not care about us. Even if half of us die, they will not give us a second thought. But you are worth ten thousand of us. It is far better now for you to stay in the city and support us from here."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to them, "I will do whatever you think is best." Then the king stood beside the gate, and all the people came out in groups of hundreds and thousands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king gave orders to Joab, Abishai, and Ittai, saying, "For my sake, treat the young man Absalom with care." All the people heard when the king instructed all the commanders regarding Absalom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the people went out into the open country to confront Israel, and the battle took place in the forest of Ephraim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the people of Israel were struck down before David’s forces, and a great slaughter took place, with twenty thousand men falling in battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The battle spread across the entire countryside, and the forest claimed more lives that day than the sword did.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Absalom encountered David’s soldiers. He was riding on a mule, and as the mule passed beneath the thick branches of a large oak tree, Absalom’s head became entangled in the branches. He was left hanging between heaven and earth, while the mule he was riding continued on without him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man saw what had happened and reported it to Joab, saying, "Look, I saw Absalom hanging in an oak tree."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab said to the man who had brought him the news, "You saw him there—why didn’t you strike him down on the spot? If you had, I would have given you ten shekels of silver and a belt as a reward."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man replied to Joab, "Even if I were offered a thousand shekels of silver in my hand, I would not raise my hand against the king’s son. For in our hearing, the king commanded you, Abishai, and Ittai, saying, ‘Be careful that no one harms the young man Absalom.’"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If I had done otherwise, I would have been acting deceitfully against my own life, for nothing is hidden from the king. You yourself would have turned against me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joab said, "I cannot delay here with you any longer." He took three spears in his hand and drove them into Absalom's heart while he was still alive, hanging in the oak tree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then ten young men who carried Joab’s armor surrounded Absalom, struck him, and killed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joab sounded the trumpet, and the troops stopped pursuing Israel, for Joab restrained them from continuing the chase.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They seized Absalom and threw him into a large pit in the forest, then piled a massive heap of stones over him. After this, all the people of Israel fled, each returning to their own home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During his lifetime, Absalom had set up a monument for himself in the King’s Valley, saying, “I have no son to preserve the memory of my name.” So he named the monument after himself, and to this day it is called Absalom’s Monument.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok, said, “Please let me run and bring the king news, telling him how the LORD has delivered him from his enemies.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab said to him, "You will not be the one to deliver news today. You may bring news another day, but not today, because the king's son is dead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joab said to Cushi, "Go and report to the king what you have witnessed." Cushi bowed respectfully to Joab and then ran to deliver the message.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok, spoke again to Joab, saying, “No matter what, please let me also run after Cushi.” But Joab replied, “Why do you want to run, my son? You have no news to deliver.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However it may be, he said, "Let me run." And the other replied, "Run." So Ahimaaz took the path through the plain and outran Cushi.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David was seated between the two gates. The watchman climbed up to the roof of the gate by the wall, looked out, and saw a man running by himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The watchman called out and informed the king. The king responded, "If he is alone, he must be bringing news." The messenger approached quickly, drawing near.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The watchman saw another man running, so he called to the gatekeeper and said, "Look, there’s another man running by himself." The king responded, "He must also be bringing news."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The watchman said, "It seems to me that the running of the first one is like the running of Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok." The king replied, "He is a good man, and he comes bearing good news."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahimaaz called out and said to the king, "All is well." Then he bowed down to the ground before the king with his face to the earth and said, "Praise be to the LORD your God, who has handed over the men who raised their hand against my lord the king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king asked, "Is the young man Absalom safe?" Ahimaaz replied, "When Joab sent the king's servant and me, your servant, I saw a great commotion, but I did not know what it was about."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to him, "Step aside and stand here." So he stepped aside and stood in place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Suddenly, Cushi arrived and said, “I bring news, my lord the king: The LORD has delivered justice for you today by avenging all those who rose up against you.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king asked Cushi, "Is the young man Absalom safe?" Cushi replied, "May all the enemies of my lord the king, and all who rise against you to harm you, meet the same fate as that young man."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king was deeply distressed and went up to the room above the gate and wept. As he walked, he cried out, "Oh, my son Absalom! My son, my son Absalom! If only I had died instead of you, Absalom, my son, my son!"</span></p>






</body></html>