<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sumpsu.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e0bc4bb0-9f82-57da-ef79-f7a77ae44933" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, Israel: Today you are about to cross the Jordan River to enter and take possession of nations larger and stronger than you, with cities that are great and fortified, reaching up to the sky.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A people great and mighty, the descendants of the Anakim, whom you know well and about whom you have heard it said, "Who can stand against the descendants of Anak?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Recognize today that the LORD your God is the one who goes ahead of you. Like a blazing fire, he will consume them and bring them down before you. You will drive them out and swiftly destroy them, just as the LORD has promised you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not say in your heart, after the LORD your God has driven them out before you, “Because of my righteousness the LORD has brought me in to take possession of this land.” Rather, it is because of the wickedness of these nations that the LORD is driving them out before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It is not because of your righteousness or the integrity of your heart that you are going in to take possession of their land. Rather, it is because of the wickedness of these nations that the LORD your God is driving them out before you, and to fulfill the promise that the LORD swore to your ancestors—Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, understand this: the LORD your God is not giving you this good land to possess because of your righteousness, for you are a stubborn and rebellious people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remember, and do not forget, how you provoked the LORD your God to anger in the wilderness. From the day you left the land of Egypt until you arrived in this place, you have continually rebelled against the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At Horeb, you provoked the Lord to anger, so much so that the Lord was furious with you and intended to destroy you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I went up the mountain to receive the stone tablets—the tablets of the covenant that the LORD made with you—I stayed on the mountain for forty days and forty nights. During that time, I did not eat bread or drink water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD gave me two stone tablets inscribed by the finger of God. On them were written all the words that the LORD had spoken to you on the mountain from the midst of the fire on the day of the gathering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the conclusion of forty days and forty nights, the LORD gave me the two stone tablets, which were the tablets of the covenant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "Get up and go down from here quickly, for the people you brought out of Egypt have become corrupt. They have quickly turned away from the path I commanded them to follow; they have made for themselves a cast idol."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moreover, the LORD spoke to me, saying, "I have observed this people, and indeed, they are a stubborn and obstinate people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Leave me alone, so that I may destroy them and erase their name from under heaven. Then I will make of you a nation stronger and greater than they are.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I turned and descended from the mountain, and the mountain was ablaze with fire. The two tablets of the covenant were in my hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I observed, and indeed, you had sinned against the LORD your God. You had made for yourselves a cast metal calf and had quickly turned away from the path that the LORD had commanded you to follow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I took the two stone tablets and threw them from my hands, shattering them before your eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I prostrated myself before the LORD, just as I had done before, for forty days and forty nights. During that time, I neither ate bread nor drank water because of all the sins you had committed by acting wickedly in the sight of the LORD, provoking Him to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I was fearful of the intense anger and burning wrath with which the LORD was enraged against you, intending to destroy you. But the LORD listened to me at that time as well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD was extremely angry with Aaron, to the point of intending to destroy him; and at that same time, I also prayed on Aaron's behalf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I took the object of your sin—the calf you had made—and burned it in the fire. I crushed it, grinding it into fine powder until it was as fine as dust. Then I threw the dust into the stream that flowed down from the mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At Taberah, at Massah, and at Kibroth-hattaavah, you stirred the LORD to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Similarly, when the LORD sent you out from Kadesh-barnea, instructing you, "Go up and take possession of the land I have given you," you rebelled against the command of the LORD your God. You did not trust Him or listen to His voice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have been defiant against the LORD from the very day I first knew you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I prostrated myself before the LORD for forty days and forty nights, just as I had done before, because the LORD had declared his intention to destroy you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I prayed to the LORD and said, "O Lord GOD, do not destroy your people, your own possession, whom you have redeemed by your great power and brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remember your servants Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Do not focus on the defiance of this people, their wickedness, or their sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Otherwise, the land from which you brought us out might say, "Because the LORD was not able to bring them into the land he promised them, and because he despised them, he led them out to kill them in the wilderness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet they are your people and your inheritance, whom you brought out with your great power and your outstretched arm.</span></p>






</body></html>