<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Corinthians Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sumtog.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:05343a37-6167-90a2-f7f2-2d935485a722" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Corinthians Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now I, Paul, personally appeal to you by the gentleness and kindness of Christ—I who am humble when face to face with you, but bold toward you when I am away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I urge you, so that when I am present with you, I may not have to act boldly with the confidence I intend to show toward those who regard us as if we live by worldly standards.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For although we live in the physical world, we do not wage war according to human methods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the weapons we use in our spiritual battle are not of this world, but they are empowered by God to demolish strongholds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We demolish every false argument and every lofty idea that sets itself up against the true knowledge of God, and we take captive every thought to make it obedient to Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And we stand prepared to address and correct all acts of disobedience once your obedience has been fully demonstrated and established.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do you judge things based on outward appearances? If anyone is confident in themselves that they belong to Christ, they should consider this again: just as they belong to Christ, so do we.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if I were to boast a bit more about the authority the Lord has given us—an authority meant to build you up, not to tear you down—I would have no reason to be ashamed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I say this so that it does not appear as though I am trying to intimidate you with my letters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People say that his letters are forceful and powerful, but his physical appearance is unimpressive, and his speaking ability is lacking.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let such a person consider this: just as we are in our words through letters when we are absent, so we will also be in our actions when we are present.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We do not presume to classify or compare ourselves with those who promote themselves. However, when they measure themselves by their own standards and compare themselves to one another, they demonstrate a lack of wisdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, we will not boast beyond proper limits, but within the boundaries of the responsibility God has assigned to us—a responsibility that extends even to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We do not overextend ourselves or claim authority beyond what is appropriate, as if we had not reached you. For we have indeed come to you in our mission to proclaim the gospel of Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We do not boast about accomplishments beyond our proper scope, particularly in areas where others have done the work. Instead, we hold to the hope that as your faith grows, our influence among you will expand greatly, in accordance with the boundaries God has set for us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To proclaim the good news in the areas beyond your region, and not to take pride in work already accomplished within someone else's sphere of influence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, let the one who boasts boast only in the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100028990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A person is not proven genuine by praising themselves, but by being commended by the Lord.</span></p>






</body></html>