<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 28</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\suozpg.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5eb9e37f-a94f-aee0-5d18-a33a4f20a08a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 28</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instruct the people of Israel and say to them: You must carefully present to me my offerings—the food for my fire sacrifices, which are a pleasing aroma to me—at their appointed times.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall instruct them, saying, "This is the offering to be presented by fire, which you are to bring to the LORD: two unblemished year-old lambs each day, as a regular burnt offering."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall offer one lamb in the morning and the other lamb in the evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the grain offering, use one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour, mixed with a quarter of a hin of pressed olive oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is a perpetual burnt offering, which was established at Mount Sinai as a pleasing aroma, a fire-offering presented to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The drink offering for each lamb shall be a quarter of a hin. In the sacred place, you are to pour out the strong wine as a drink offering to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall offer the second lamb in the evening, along with the same grain offering and drink offering as you presented in the morning. It is to be a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, producing a pleasing aroma to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the Sabbath day, you shall offer two unblemished one-year-old lambs, along with two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering, and the accompanying drink offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the burnt offering to be presented every Sabbath, in addition to the regular daily burnt offering and its accompanying drink offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the start of each month, you are to present a burnt offering to the LORD: two young bulls, one ram, and seven male lambs in their first year, without any defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For each bull, prepare a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil; and for each ram, prepare a grain offering of two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For each lamb, you shall prepare a grain offering consisting of one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil. This is to accompany the burnt offering, a pleasing aroma to the LORD, a sacrifice made by fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The drink offerings accompanying the sacrifices shall consist of half a hin of wine for a bull, a third of a hin for a ram, and a quarter of a hin for a lamb. This is the regulation for the burnt offering to be presented each month throughout the year.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Additionally, one male goat shall be presented as a sin offering to the LORD, in addition to the regular burnt offering and its accompanying drink offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fourteenth day of the first month, the Passover of the LORD is to be observed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fifteenth day of this month, the festival begins. For seven days, you must eat bread made without yeast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the first day, there shall be a sacred assembly; you must not engage in any ordinary labor on that day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present a burnt offering to the LORD, a sacrifice made by fire: two young bulls, one ram, and seven one-year-old lambs. These animals must be without any defect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their grain offering shall consist of fine flour mixed with oil: you shall offer three-tenths of an ephah for a bull, and two-tenths of an ephah for a ram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall offer a tenth of an ephah of grain for each lamb, for all seven lambs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And one goat shall be offered as a sin offering to provide atonement for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present these offerings in addition to the morning burnt offering, which is a regular and ongoing offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, you shall present the food offering each day for seven days, as a sacrifice made by fire, a pleasing aroma to the LORD. It shall be offered in addition to the regular burnt offering and its accompanying drink offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the seventh day, you are to hold a sacred assembly; you must not do any ordinary work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Also, on the day of the firstfruits, when you present a new grain offering to the LORD during your Festival of Weeks, you are to hold a sacred assembly; you must not do any ordinary work.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present the burnt offering as a pleasing aroma to the LORD: two young bulls, one ram, and seven one-year-old lambs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For their grain offering, mix fine flour with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each bull, and two-tenths of an ephah for each ram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A separate tenth of an ephah of flour shall be offered for each lamb, for all seven lambs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And one male goat, to serve as a sin offering to make atonement for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present these offerings in addition to the regular burnt offering, along with its grain offering (they must be without defect) and their drink offerings.</span></p>






</body></html>