<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 50</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\suq79q.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:98d6f1a2-cce1-bc82-d4e6-1b7b0e4e4160" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 50</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Where is the certificate of divorce by which I sent your mother away? Or to which of my creditors did I sell you? Look, it was because of your sins that you were sold, and because of your rebellions that your mother was sent away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why, when I arrived, was there no one present? When I called out, was there no one to respond? Is my power so limited that I cannot save? Or do I lack the strength to rescue? Look, at my command I dry up the sea; I turn rivers into barren wastelands. The fish rot for lack of water and die of thirst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I cover the heavens with darkness, and I make sackcloth their covering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord GOD has granted me the ability to speak with wisdom, so that I may know how to offer timely encouragement to those who are weary. Each morning, He awakens me; He opens my ear to listen and learn, like one who is taught.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Sovereign LORD has opened my understanding, and I did not resist or turn away in defiance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I offered my back to those who struck me, and my cheeks to those who pulled out my beard. I did not hide my face from humiliation and spitting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the Sovereign LORD will assist me; therefore, I will not be disgraced. For this reason, I have resolved to stand firm, unwavering like flint, and I am confident that I will not be put to shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who declares me righteous is near. Who will dare to oppose me? Let us confront each other. Who is my accuser? Let him approach me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the Lord GOD will come to my aid; who then can condemn me? Indeed, all of them will wear out like a garment; moths will devour them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who among you fears the LORD and obeys the voice of his servant, yet walks in darkness with no light to guide you? Let such a person trust in the name of the LORD and rely firmly on their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, all of you who ignite your own fires and surround yourselves with sparks: go ahead, walk by the light of your own flames and the sparks you have lit. But this is what you will receive from my hand: you will lie down in anguish.</span></p>






</body></html>