<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Genesis Chapter 45</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\suqxp7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:48182af2-d6c2-3993-efd9-6afe1ed838fa" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Genesis Chapter 45</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph could no longer control his emotions in the presence of all those standing around him, so he cried out, "Have everyone leave the room!" When no one else remained with him, Joseph revealed his true identity to his brothers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he wept with loud sobs, and the Egyptians heard it, as did the household of Pharaoh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph said to his brothers, "I am Joseph. Is my father still alive?" But his brothers could not answer him, for they were deeply shaken and overwhelmed by his presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph said to his brothers, "Please come closer to me." So they approached him. Then he said, "I am Joseph, your brother—the one you sold into Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So now, do not be distressed or angry with yourselves for selling me here, because God sent me ahead of you to save lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the past two years, the famine has afflicted the land, and there are still five more years to come during which there will be no plowing or harvesting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God sent me ahead of you to ensure that you would have descendants on the earth and to save your lives through a mighty act of rescue.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So now, it was not you who sent me here, but God. He has appointed me as a father figure to Pharaoh, as master over his entire household, and as a ruler over all the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hurry and go to my father, and tell him, 'This is what your son Joseph says: God has made me ruler over all of Egypt. Come down to me without delay.'</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will settle in the land of Goshen, and you will be close to me—you, your children, your grandchildren, your flocks, your herds, and all that you possess.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"I will provide for you there, because there are still five years of famine to come. This way, you, your household, and all that you have will not fall into destitution."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, your eyes can see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin as well, that it is truly my own voice speaking to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must tell my father about all the honor and greatness I have attained in Egypt, and about everything you have witnessed here. Then, hurry and bring my father down to this place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he embraced his brother Benjamin, holding him tightly, and wept with deep emotion; and Benjamin, in turn, wept as he held him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joseph embraced each of his brothers and wept over them. After this, his brothers began to speak openly with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The news reached Pharaoh’s palace, with reports saying, “Joseph’s brothers have arrived.” This pleased Pharaoh greatly, as well as his officials.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh said to Joseph, "Tell your brothers this: Load your animals and return to the land of Canaan."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Bring your father and your entire household, and come to me. I will provide you with the best of the land of Egypt, and you will enjoy the richest produce of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now you are instructed to do this: Take wagons from the land of Egypt for your children and your wives, and bring your father here with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not worry about your belongings, for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites did as they were instructed. Joseph provided them with wagons, as Pharaoh had commanded, and also supplied them with provisions for their journey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To each of them, he gave a set of new garments, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver and five sets of new garments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To his father, he sent gifts in this way: ten donkeys loaded with the finest goods of Egypt, and ten female donkeys carrying grain, bread, and provisions for his father’s journey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he sent his brothers away, and they departed. He said to them, "Make sure you do not quarrel with one another on the way."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They left Egypt and traveled to the land of Canaan, where they returned to their father Jacob.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They told him, saying, "Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt." But Jacob's heart grew faint, for he could not believe them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They recounted to Jacob all the words Joseph had spoken to them. When he saw the wagons that Joseph had sent to transport him, the spirit of Jacob, their father, was renewed, and his strength returned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Israel declared, "It is enough; my son Joseph is still alive. I will go and see him before I die."</span></p>






</body></html>