<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joel Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sutnby.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:44d47662-9027-5bd6-169f-d088a78e442c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joel Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sound the trumpet in Zion, and raise an alarm on my holy mountain. Let all who live in the land tremble, for the day of the LORD is coming—it is near at hand!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and deep shadows, like the dawn spreading over the mountains—a vast and mighty army, the likes of which has never been seen before and will never be seen again, not even in the generations to come.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A fire consumes everything before them, and behind them, a blazing flame spreads. The land ahead of them is like the Garden of Eden, but behind them, it becomes a barren wasteland. Nothing can escape their destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their appearance is like that of horses, and they charge forward like cavalry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will rush forward with the sound of chariots thundering over mountain peaks, like the roar of a blazing fire consuming dry stubble, like a mighty army prepared for battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Before their presence, the people will be in great distress; every face will grow pale with fear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will charge forward like powerful warriors; they will scale walls like skilled soldiers. Each will advance in their assigned position, maintaining their formation without breaking ranks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one will push or crowd another; each will proceed in their own way. Even if they charge into battle, they will not be harmed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will rush back and forth through the city; they will run along the walls, they will climb up onto the houses; they will enter through the windows like a thief.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The earth will shake violently in their presence; the heavens will quake. The sun and moon will grow dark, and the stars will cease to shine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will raise His voice before His army, for His camp is exceedingly vast. He who carries out His word is mighty, for the day of the LORD is great and utterly awe-inspiring—who can endure it?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD now declares: Return to me with all your heart, accompanied by fasting, weeping, and mourning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tear your hearts, not just your clothes, and return to the LORD your God, for he is compassionate and merciful, slow to become angry, and overflowing with faithful love. He relents from sending disaster.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who knows whether God might turn back, show compassion, and leave behind a blessing for us—a grain offering and a drink offering to present before the LORD your God?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sound the trumpet in Zion, declare a sacred fast, and summon a solemn gathering of the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Summon the people, consecrate the assembly, call together the elders, gather the children, even the infants at the breast. Let the bridegroom leave his private room and the bride her bridal chamber.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let the priests, who serve the LORD, weep in the space between the porch and the altar, and let them plead, "Have mercy on your people, O LORD, and do not let your inheritance be disgraced, allowing foreign nations to dominate them. Why should the nations mock, saying, 'Where is their God?'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the LORD will show deep concern for His land and will have compassion on His people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, the LORD will respond and say to His people, "Listen, I will provide you with grain, wine, and oil, and you will be fully satisfied with them. I will no longer allow you to be disgraced among the nations."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I will drive far away from you the northern army, and I will banish it into a barren and desolate land, with its front facing the eastern sea and its rear toward the western sea. Its foul stench will rise, and its repulsive odor will ascend, because it has committed great acts of arrogance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be afraid, O land; be joyful and celebrate, for the LORD is about to accomplish mighty deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be afraid, you animals of the field, for the pastures of the wilderness are becoming green, the trees are bearing their fruit, and the fig tree and the vine are producing their bounty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rejoice, then, you people of Zion, and be glad in the LORD your God, for He has given you the early rain in its season, and He will send down for you the rain—both the early rain and the late rain—in the first month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The threshing floors will be filled with grain, and the winepresses will overflow with new wine and olive oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will repay you for the years that the locusts have devoured—the swarming locust, the young locust, the destroying locust, and the chewing locust—my great army that I sent against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will eat abundantly and be fully satisfied, and you will praise the name of the LORD your God, who has done marvelous things for you. My people will never again be put to shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will come to understand that I am present among Israel, and that I am the LORD your God, and there is no other. My people will never be put to shame.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And in the days to come, I will pour out my Spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy, your elders will dream dreams, and your young men will see visions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And in those days, I will pour out my Spirit upon both male and female servants alike.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will display extraordinary signs in the heavens and on the earth: blood, fire, and columns of smoke.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sun will be darkened, and the moon will turn red like blood, before the coming of the great and awe-inspiring day of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: Everyone who calls on the name of the LORD will be saved. For on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be deliverance, as the LORD has promised, and among the survivors whom the LORD calls.</span></p>






</body></html>