<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\suw7up.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:745a943c-d33c-4ef7-5d7e-3f7e5a58256e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, David attacked the Philistines and brought them under his control. He also took Metheg-ammah from the Philistines' possession.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David defeated the Moabites and measured them with a line, dividing them into groups. He made them lie down on the ground, and with two lines he marked off those who were to be put to death, and with one full line, those who were to be spared. In this way, the Moabites became subject to David and were required to pay tribute.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David also defeated Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, when he went to reestablish his control over his territory at the Euphrates River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David captured from him a thousand chariots, seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers. David disabled all the chariot horses by cutting their hamstrings, but he kept enough horses for a hundred chariots.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Arameans from Damascus came to assist Hadadezer, the king of Zobah, David defeated them, killing twenty-two thousand of their men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David stationed troops in the region of Damascus in Syria, and the Syrians became subject to David, bringing him tribute. The Lord gave David success wherever he went.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David captured the gold shields that belonged to the officials of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King David also took a very large quantity of bronze from Betah and Berothai, which were cities belonging to Hadadezer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Toi, the king of Hamath, heard that David had defeated the entire army of Hadadezer,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Toi sent his son Joram to King David to greet him and to honor him, because David had fought against Hadadezer and defeated him, for Hadadezer had been at war with Toi. Joram brought with him gifts of silver, gold, and bronze vessels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King David also dedicated these to the LORD, along with the silver and gold that he had set apart from all the nations he had conquered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning Syria, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and Amalek, as well as the plunder taken from Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And David gained great renown when he returned from defeating the Syrians in the Valley of Salt, having struck down eighteen thousand men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David stationed military outposts throughout Edom, placing troops in every part of the region, and all the people of Edom became his subjects. The LORD gave David success wherever he went.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David ruled over all of Israel, and he administered justice and fairness to all his people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was in command of the army, and Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, served as the official recorder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zadok, the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, served as priests, while Seraiah held the position of scribe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was in charge of both the Cherethites and the Pelethites, while David’s sons served as chief officials.</span></p>






</body></html>