<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sux05b.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2ff0899a-3ae2-bb08-98bc-cb3aa4c683e0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul instructed his son Jonathan and all his servants to kill David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jonathan, the son of Saul, greatly cherished David. Jonathan warned David, saying, “My father Saul is seeking to kill you. Therefore, please be on your guard until morning. Stay in a hidden place and conceal yourself.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will go out and stand next to my father in the field where you are, and I will speak with him about you. Whatever I observe, I will report back to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan spoke favorably about David to his father Saul, saying, "Do not let the king wrong his servant David, for he has done nothing wrong against you. In fact, his actions have been greatly beneficial to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he risked his life and killed the Philistine, and the LORD brought about a great deliverance for all Israel. You saw it and rejoiced. Why then would you sin by shedding innocent blood, putting David to death without any just cause?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul listened to Jonathan's words, and Saul swore an oath, saying, "As surely as the LORD lives, he will not be put to death."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan summoned David and revealed everything to him. Then Jonathan brought David to Saul, and David stood before him just as he had in earlier days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once again, war broke out. David went out to battle against the Philistines, fought them, and inflicted a heavy defeat upon them, causing them to flee before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">An evil spirit sent by the LORD came upon Saul as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand, while David played the lyre.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul attempted to pin David to the wall with his spear, but David dodged out of Saul's reach, and the spear struck the wall instead. David then fled and escaped that very night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul also sent messengers to David’s house to keep watch over him and to kill him in the morning. But Michal, David’s wife, warned him, saying, “If you do not escape with your life tonight, tomorrow you will be put to death.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Michal helped David descend through a window, and he left, fleeing to safety and escaping.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Michal took a household idol and placed it in the bed, arranging a pillow of goats' hair at its head and covering it with a garment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Saul sent his men to capture David, she told them, "He is ill."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul sent the messengers once more to see David, instructing them, "Bring him to me on his bed, so that I may kill him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the messengers entered, they saw a figure lying in the bed, with a pillow made of goats' hair placed at its head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said to Michal, "Why have you deceived me like this and let my enemy escape?" Michal replied to Saul, "He said to me, 'Let me go; why should I kill you?'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David fled and escaped, going to Samuel at Ramah. He told Samuel everything Saul had done to him. Then David and Samuel went together and stayed in Naioth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul was informed, saying, "Look, David is at Naioth in Ramah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul sent messengers to capture David, but when they arrived and saw the group of prophets prophesying, with Samuel standing there leading them, the Spirit of God came upon Saul’s messengers, and they too began to prophesy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Saul was informed about this, he sent another group of messengers, and they also prophesied in the same way. Saul then sent messengers a third time, and they too prophesied.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he also went to Ramah and arrived at the large well in Sechu. He inquired, saying, "Where are Samuel and David?" Someone replied, "They are at Naioth in Ramah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he went to Naioth in Ramah, and the Spirit of God came upon him as well. As he continued on his way, he prophesied until he reached Naioth in Ramah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he also removed his clothes and, in the same manner as the others, prophesied before Samuel. He lay there unclothed throughout that entire day and night. This is why people ask, "Is Saul also one of the prophets?"</span></p>






</body></html>