<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\suy0gc.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:ec1fea46-b8c4-5cbf-e45c-6f47d4ac118e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Elisha said, "Listen to the word of the LORD. This is what the LORD says: By this time tomorrow, a measure of fine flour will be sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, at the gate of Samaria."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a high-ranking official, on whose arm the king was leaning, responded to the man of God and said, "Even if the LORD were to open windows in heaven, could such a thing happen?" The man of God replied, "You will see it with your own eyes, but you will not eat any of it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the entrance of the city gate, there were four men with leprosy. They said to one another, "Why should we stay here waiting to die?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If we say, "We will go into the city," then the famine is in the city, and we will die there. And if we stay here, we will also die. So now, come, let us surrender to the Syrian army. If they spare our lives, we will live; and if they kill us, we will only die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They got up at twilight to go to the camp of the Syrians. When they reached the edge of the Syrian camp, they saw that no one was there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord had caused the Syrian army to hear the sound of chariots, horses, and a massive army. They said to one another, "Look, the king of Israel has hired the kings of the Hittites and the kings of the Egyptians to attack us!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, they got up and fled at dusk, abandoning their tents, their horses, and their donkeys—leaving the entire camp just as it was—and ran for their lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the lepers reached the edge of the camp, they entered one of the tents, where they ate and drank. They took silver, gold, and clothing, carried it away, and hid it. Then they returned, entered another tent, took more items, and hid those as well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they said to one another, "We are not doing what is right. Today is a day of good news, and we are staying silent. If we wait until morning, some punishment or disaster may come upon us. So now, let us go and report this to the king’s household."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they went and called out to the gatekeepers of the city, reporting to them, saying, "We went to the camp of the Arameans, and look, there was no one there—no sound of anyone—only the horses and donkeys tied up, and the tents left just as they were."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He summoned the gatekeepers, and they reported the matter to the king’s household inside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king got up during the night and said to his servants, "Let me tell you what the Syrians have done to us. They know we are starving, so they have left the camp and hidden themselves in the open country, thinking, 'When they come out of the city, we will capture them alive and then take control of the city.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One of his servants responded, saying, "Please, let some men take five of the remaining horses that are left in the city. (Look, these horses are like the rest of the people of Israel who remain here—indeed, they are like all the Israelites who have already perished.) Let us send them to investigate and see what has happened."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they took two chariot horses, and the king sent them to follow the army of the Arameans, saying, "Go and see what has happened."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They pursued them as far as the Jordan, and behold, the entire road was strewn with garments and equipment that the Arameans had thrown aside in their frantic retreat. The messengers then returned and reported this to the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people went out and plundered the camps of the Arameans. As a result, a measure of fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, just as the LORD had declared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king assigned the officer who supported him to oversee the gate. But the people trampled him in the gateway, and he died, just as the man of God had foretold when the king came to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it happened just as the man of God had told the king, saying, "By this time tomorrow, two measures of barley will be sold for a shekel, and one measure of fine flour for a shekel, at the gate of Samaria."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The official responded to the man of God and said, "Even if the LORD were to open windows in heaven, could such a thing really happen?" The man of God replied, "You will see it with your own eyes, but you will not eat any of it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And so it happened to him: for the people trampled him in the gate, and he died.</span></p>






</body></html>