<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 47</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\suy01h.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0084bbbd-c40a-4753-68a6-faf4507c4a6c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 47</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, he brought me back to the entrance of the temple, and I saw water flowing out from beneath the threshold of the temple toward the east, for the front of the temple faced east. The water was coming down from under the south side of the temple, to the south of the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he brought me out through the north gate and led me around the outer path to the outer gate that faces eastward. And behold, water was flowing out from the right side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the man holding the measuring line went eastward and measured a distance of a thousand cubits. He led me through the water, and the water reached up to my ankles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more he measured a distance of a thousand cubits and led me through the water; this time, the water reached up to my knees. He measured another thousand cubits and brought me through again; now the water rose to my waist.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, he measured a distance of a thousand cubits, and it was a river that I could not cross, for the waters had risen—deep enough to swim in, a river that could not be traversed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to me, "Mortal, have you seen this?" Then he led me and brought me back to the edge of the river.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I returned, I saw that there were very many trees on both sides of the riverbank.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to me, "These waters flow eastward toward the eastern region, descend into the desert, and enter the sea. When they flow into the sea, the waters there will be made pure and restored."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: Every living creature that moves, wherever the river flows, will live. There will be an abundance of fish, for wherever these waters go, they will bring healing, and everything that the river touches will live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen that fishermen will stand along its shores from En-gedi to En-eglaim; it will be a place for spreading out nets. Their fish will be of many kinds, like the fish of the great sea, exceedingly abundant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the marshy areas and the swamps will not be restored; they will be left as barren land, destined to remain desolate and salted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Along the river, on both its banks, will grow all kinds of trees for food. Their leaves will not wither, nor will their fruit fail. They will bear fresh fruit every month, because the water that nourishes them flows from the sanctuary. Their fruit will serve as food, and their leaves will be used for healing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: "This will be the boundary by which you are to divide the land as an inheritance for the twelve tribes of Israel. Joseph will receive two portions."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall inherit the land equally, each of you receiving a portion. This is the land I solemnly promised to give to your ancestors, and it will now become your inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This will be the boundary of the land on the northern side: starting from the Mediterranean Sea, it will extend along the route to Hethlon, continuing toward Zedad.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim—which lies between the boundary of Damascus and the boundary of Hamath—and Hazar-hatticon, located near the border of Hauran.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boundary will extend from the sea to Hazar-enan, marking the border of Damascus, and continue northward to the border of Hamath. This will be the northern side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eastern side, you shall measure the boundary starting from Hauran, extending through Damascus and Gilead, and continuing to the land of Israel along the Jordan River, reaching as far as the eastern sea. This defines the eastern boundary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The southern boundary will extend southward from Tamar to the waters of Meribah at Kadesh, then along the Wadi to the Mediterranean Sea. This will be the southern boundary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The western boundary will extend from the border to the Mediterranean Sea, reaching as far as the area opposite Hamath. This will be the western side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall apportion this land among yourselves according to the tribes of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the time comes, you will distribute the land by lot as an inheritance for yourselves and for the foreigners residing among you who have children. These foreigners will be treated as if they were native-born Israelites; they will receive an inheritance alongside you among the tribes of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: "Wherever a foreigner resides among the tribes of Israel, in that tribe you must grant him his inheritance."</span></p>






</body></html>