<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sv660r.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d1024d19-6431-9bd0-3603-0e16199ee771" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and tell them: If any man has a discharge from his body, he is unclean because of this discharge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This will be the condition of his impurity due to his discharge: whether his body continues to flow with the discharge or his body stops the discharge, it remains his impurity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every bed on which a person with a discharge lies will be unclean, and anything on which they sit will also be unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who touches his bed must wash their clothes, bathe in water, and will remain unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who sits on an object that was used by a person with a bodily discharge must wash their clothes and bathe in water. They will remain unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who touches the body of a person with a discharge must wash their clothes, bathe in water, and will remain unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone who has a bodily discharge spits on a person who is clean, then the clean person must wash their clothes, bathe in water, and remain ceremonially unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Any saddle that a person with a discharge rides on will become unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who touches anything that was under the person who had the discharge will be unclean until evening. Whoever carries any of those items must wash their clothes, bathe in water, and remain unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone who has a bodily discharge touches another person, and that person has not washed their hands with water, they must wash their clothes, bathe in water, and will remain unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Any clay vessel that someone with a discharge touches must be broken, and every wooden vessel must be thoroughly rinsed with water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When someone who has had a bodily discharge is healed from it, they must count seven days for their cleansing. During this time, they must wash their clothes and bathe their body in fresh, flowing water. After doing this, they will be considered clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eighth day, he shall bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons and present himself before the LORD at the entrance to the tent of meeting. He shall then give them to the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall present them, one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering. The priest shall make atonement for him before the LORD to cleanse him from his discharge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man has an emission of semen, he must wash his entire body with water and will remain ritually unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Any clothing or leather item that has been exposed to semen must be washed with water and will remain ritually unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man has sexual relations with a woman and there is an emission of semen, both of them must wash themselves with water and will remain ritually unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a woman has a discharge, and her discharge is blood from her body, she shall be set apart for seven days. Anyone who touches her will be unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During her time of menstrual impurity, anything she lies on will become unclean, and anything she sits on will also be unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who touches her bed must wash their clothes and bathe in water, and they will remain unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who touches anything she has sat on must wash their clothes and bathe in water, and they will remain unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the discharge is on her bed or on anything she sits on, and someone touches it, they will be unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a man has sexual relations with her during her menstrual period, he will be unclean for seven days, and any bed he lies on will also be unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If a woman has a discharge of blood for many days outside the time of her menstrual period, or if her discharge continues beyond the time of her period, all the days of her unclean discharge will be like the days of her menstrual impurity. She will be considered unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every bed on which she lies during the days of her discharge will be like the bed of her menstrual impurity, and anything she sits on will be unclean, just as it is during her time of separation due to uncleanness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who touches these things will become unclean. They must wash their clothes, bathe in water, and remain unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if she is freed from her discharge, she must count seven days for herself, and after that she will be ritually clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eighth day, she is to take two turtledoves or two young pigeons and bring them to the priest at the entrance of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall present one of the birds as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering. In this way, the priest will make atonement for her before the LORD, cleansing her from the impurity caused by her discharge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, you must set apart the people of Israel from their impurity, so that they do not die because of their uncleanness when they defile my dwelling place, which is among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning anyone who has a bodily discharge, or whose semen flows from him, making him unclean because of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning a woman who is experiencing her menstrual period, and concerning anyone who has a bodily discharge, whether a man or a woman, and concerning a man who lies with a woman who is ritually unclean.</span></p>






</body></html>