<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sv7lwc.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cc12ce3d-dbd3-4b9f-7f07-2d169592f440" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, Damascus will cease to be a city; it will become a heap of ruins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cities of Aroer are abandoned; they will become places for flocks to lie down, and no one will frighten them away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The stronghold will vanish from Ephraim, and the kingdom will depart from Damascus. The remnant of Syria will become like the splendor of the Israelites, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, it will happen that the splendor of Jacob will diminish, and the abundance of his strength will waste away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It will be like when a harvester gathers the grain, cutting the stalks with his arm; it will be like someone gleaning ears of grain in the Valley of Rephaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet some grapes will remain for gleaning, like the few olives left after shaking the tree—two or three berries on the highest branches, four or five on the outermost fruitful limbs, declares the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, a person will turn their attention to their Creator, and their eyes will focus with reverence on the Holy One of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will no longer pay attention to the altars, the work of his own hands, nor will he regard what his fingers have made—whether the sacred poles or the idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, his fortified cities will be like an abandoned thicket or a deserted treetop, left behind because of the Israelites, and they will become a place of desolation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you have forgotten the God who saves you and have failed to remember the Rock, your source of strength, you will plant beautiful gardens and set them with foreign vines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the day you plant, your crops will grow, and in the morning, your seed will sprout and flourish. Yet, the harvest will become nothing but a heap of ruin on the day of grief and overwhelming sorrow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Trouble awaits the great multitude of people, whose clamor is as loud as the roaring of the seas, and to the surging of nations, whose tumult is like the crashing of mighty waters!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The nations will surge forward like the roaring of mighty waters, but God will rebuke them, and they will flee far away. They will be driven like chaff scattered by the wind from the mountains, and like tumbleweeds swept away by a whirlwind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, trouble comes at evening, but by morning it is gone. This is the fate of those who plunder us, the destiny of those who rob us.</span></p>






</body></html>