<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Genesis Chapter 47</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sv7p46.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:85ad37f8-96fe-3a93-e783-9940c5f8eaa9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Genesis Chapter 47</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joseph went to Pharaoh and informed him, saying, "My father and my brothers, along with their flocks, herds, and all that they possess, have come from the land of Canaan. They are now in the region of Goshen."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He selected five of his brothers and brought them before Pharaoh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pharaoh asked Joseph's brothers, "What do you do for a living?" They replied to Pharaoh, "Your servants are shepherds, both we and our ancestors before us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They further said to Pharaoh, "We have come to live in the land temporarily, for your servants have no pasture for our flocks, as the famine is severe in the land of Canaan. Therefore, we ask you, please let your servants settle in the region of Goshen."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh spoke to Joseph, saying, "Your father and your brothers have come to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land of Egypt lies open before you. Settle your father and brothers in the best part of the land; let them live in the region of Goshen. If you know of any capable men among them, appoint them as overseers of my livestock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph brought his father Jacob and presented him before Pharaoh. Then Jacob blessed Pharaoh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Pharaoh asked Jacob, "How old are you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob replied to Pharaoh, "The years of my life as a wanderer have been one hundred and thirty. My days have been few and filled with hardship, and they have not reached the length of the years my ancestors lived during their time as wanderers."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob then blessed Pharaoh and departed from his presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph settled his father and his brothers in Egypt, granting them a portion of land in the most fertile region, the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh had instructed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph provided food for his father, his brothers, and all his father’s household, supplying them with grain according to the needs of their families.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was no food anywhere in the land, for the famine was extremely severe. Both the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan were exhausted and weakened because of the famine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph collected all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan in exchange for the grain they had purchased. He then brought this money into Pharaoh’s treasury.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the money ran out in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came to Joseph and said, "Give us food, for why should we die before your eyes? Our money is gone."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph said, "Bring your livestock, and I will provide you with food in exchange for your animals, since your money is gone."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They brought their livestock to Joseph, and Joseph provided them with food in exchange for their horses, their flocks, their herds, and their donkeys. That year, he supplied them with food in return for all their livestock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When that year came to an end, they returned to him the following year and said, "We cannot hide from our lord the fact that our money is gone, and our herds of cattle now belong to our lord. Nothing remains in our possession except our bodies and our land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why should we perish before your eyes, both we and our land? Purchase us and our land in exchange for food, and we and our land will become servants to Pharaoh. Provide us with seed so that we may live and not die, and so that the land will not become desolate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph acquired all the land of Egypt on behalf of Pharaoh, for the Egyptians sold their fields, each man his own, because the famine had overwhelmed them. In this way, the land came to belong to Pharaoh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And concerning the people, he relocated them to cities throughout the entire land of Egypt, from one boundary to the other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph did not purchase the land belonging to the priests, because they received a fixed allowance from Pharaoh and lived on the portion he provided for them. For this reason, they did not sell their land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joseph said to the people, "Listen, today I have acquired you and your land for Pharaoh. Here is seed for you to plant, and you are to sow the land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the harvest comes, you must give one-fifth of it to Pharaoh, and the remaining four parts will belong to you. This portion is to be used as seed for your fields, as food for yourselves, for those in your households, and as nourishment for your children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied, "You have saved our lives. May we find favor in your eyes, my lord, and we will willingly serve Pharaoh."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph established a permanent decree throughout the land of Egypt, which remains in effect to this day: one-fifth of the produce belongs to Pharaoh. However, the land owned by the priests was exempt and did not become Pharaoh’s property.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites settled in the land of Egypt, in the region of Goshen. They acquired property there, flourished, and increased greatly in number.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob lived in the land of Egypt for seventeen years, and the total length of his life was one hundred and forty-seven years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The time approached for Israel to die, so he called his son Joseph and said to him, "If I have found favor in your sight, please place your hand under my thigh as a solemn pledge, and promise to treat me with kindness and faithfulness. Do not bury me, I beg you, in Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when I die and join my ancestors, you must carry my body out of Egypt and bury me in their burial place." Joseph replied, "I will do as you have said."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said, "Swear to me." So he swore to him. And Israel bowed in reverence at the head of his bed.</span></p>






</body></html>