<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ruth Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sv94pc.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4baabbb0-8d98-80e3-45fb-7612ec9de94d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ruth Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Naomi had a relative through her husband, a man of great wealth and standing, from the family of Elimelech. His name was Boaz.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ruth the Moabite said to Naomi, “Please let me go to the fields and gather grain behind someone who shows me favor.” Naomi replied, “Go ahead, my daughter.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So she went out and came to the field, where she gathered leftover grain behind the harvesters. As it happened, she found herself in a part of the field that belonged to Boaz, who was a relative of Elimelech.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, Boaz arrived from Bethlehem and greeted the harvesters, saying, “May the LORD be with you.” They replied to him, “May the LORD bless you.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Boaz said to his servant who was in charge of the reapers, "Who does this young woman belong to?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The servant who was in charge of the harvesters replied, "She is the young Moabite woman who returned with Naomi from the land of Moab."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said, "Please, allow me to gather grain behind the reapers among the sheaves." So she came and has been working steadily from morning until now, except for a short rest in the shelter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Boaz said to Ruth, "Do you not understand, my daughter? Do not go to gather grain in another field, and do not leave this place. Stay here close to my young women."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Keep your eyes on the field where they are harvesting, and follow behind them. Have I not instructed the young men not to harm you? When you are thirsty, go to the water jars and drink from what the young men have drawn for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then she fell facedown, bowed low to the ground, and said to him, "Why have I found such favor in your eyes that you would take notice of me, even though I am a foreigner?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Boaz replied to her, "I have been fully informed about all that you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband, and how you left your father and mother, as well as the land of your birth, to come to a people you did not know before."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the LORD repay you for your deeds, and may you receive a full reward from the LORD, the God of Israel, under whose protection you have come to take refuge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then she said, "May I find favor in your sight, my lord, for you have comforted me and spoken kindly to your servant, even though I am not like one of your servant girls."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Boaz said to her, "When it is time to eat, come here and have some bread. Dip your piece in the vinegar." So she sat down beside the harvesters, and he handed her some roasted grain. She ate until she was satisfied and had some left over.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When she got up to continue gathering grain, Boaz instructed his young workers, saying, "Allow her to gather even among the bundles of grain, and do not rebuke her."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Also, intentionally let some handfuls of grain fall for her, and leave them there so that she may gather them. Do not scold her or prevent her from doing so.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So she continued to gather grain in the field until evening. Then she threshed what she had gathered, and it amounted to about an ephah of barley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ruth gathered the grain and went back into the city. When her mother-in-law Naomi saw what she had collected, Ruth brought out the portion she had set aside after she had eaten her fill and gave it to Naomi.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then her mother-in-law said to her, "Where did you gather grain today? And where did you work? May the one who noticed you be blessed!" Ruth told her mother-in-law about the man with whom she had worked and said, "The name of the man I worked with today is Boaz."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, "May he be blessed by the LORD, who has not stopped showing his steadfast love to the living and the dead." Then Naomi added, "The man is a close relative of ours, one of our family redeemers."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ruth the Moabite replied, "He also said to me, 'You must stay close to my young men until they have finished gathering all my harvest.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Naomi said to her daughter-in-law Ruth, "It is good, my daughter, that you go out with his young women, so that you do not encounter anyone in another field."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Ruth stayed close to the young women of Boaz, gathering grain until the end of the barley harvest and the wheat harvest. She continued to live with her mother-in-law.</span></p>






</body></html>