<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sva8fw.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9fdc0aee-94d0-8fea-e044-d225274c5c35" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In my previous work, O Theophilus, I wrote about all that Jesus began to do and to teach,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Until the day when he was taken up to heaven, after he had given instructions through the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had chosen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To these same individuals, He also presented Himself alive after His suffering, providing many undeniable evidences. He was seen by them over a period of forty days, during which He spoke about matters concerning the kingdom of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jesus had gathered with them, he instructed them not to leave Jerusalem but to wait for the fulfillment of the Father’s promise, which, he said, you have heard me speak about.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">John indeed baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit in just a few days from now.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they had gathered together, they asked him, saying, "Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to them, "It is not for you to know the appointed times or seasons that the Father has established by His own authority."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, and you will be my witnesses, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the farthest reaches of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had said these things, while they were watching, he was lifted up, and a cloud enveloped him, taking him out of their sight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they gazed intently into the sky while he was ascending, suddenly two men dressed in white robes stood beside them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They also said, "Men of Galilee, why are you standing here looking up into the sky? This same Jesus, who has been taken up from you into heaven, will return in the same way you have seen him go into heaven."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they returned to Jerusalem from the hill called the Mount of Olives, which is about the distance of a Sabbath day's walk from the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they arrived, they went up to an upper room where they stayed. Among those present were Peter, James, John, Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas the brother of James.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of them were united in their devotion, persistently praying together, along with the women, Mary the mother of Jesus, and his brothers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those days, Peter stood up among the disciples and spoke (the group numbered about one hundred and twenty people).</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Brothers and fellow believers, this Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke beforehand through David concerning Judas, who became the guide for those who arrested Jesus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he was counted among us and shared in this ministry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This man bought a field with the money he gained from his wrongdoing. But he fell headfirst, his body burst open in the middle, and all his intestines spilled out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This became known to all the residents of Jerusalem, so that the field was called in their own language Akeldama, which means "Field of Blood."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For it is written in the book of Psalms: "May his dwelling become desolate, and may no one live in it," and, "Let another take his position of leadership."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, from among these men who have been with us throughout the entire time that the Lord Jesus lived and worked among us—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Starting from the time of John's baptism until the very day when Jesus was taken up from us, someone must be chosen to join us as a witness to his resurrection.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They selected two men: Joseph, who was also known as Barsabbas (and was called Justus), and Matthias.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They prayed and said, "You, Lord, who know the hearts of all people, reveal which of these two You have chosen."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that he may share in this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas turned away through his transgression and went to the place that was destined for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100026950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They cast lots to decide, and the lot fell to Matthias. As a result, he was added to the group of the eleven apostles.</span></p>






</body></html>