<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 32</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svbhwd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0e07953a-a2c5-3384-3e9e-bca01e393fd3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 32</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people saw that Moses was taking a long time to come down from the mountain, they gathered around Aaron and said to him, "Come, make us gods who will lead us. As for this Moses, the man who brought us out of the land of Egypt, we don’t know what has happened to him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron said to them, "Take off the gold earrings that your wives, your sons, and your daughters are wearing, and bring them to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people took off the gold earrings they were wearing and brought them to Aaron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took the gold from their hands, shaped it with an engraving tool, and formed it into a molten calf. Then they declared, "These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Aaron saw this, he constructed an altar in front of it. Then he made an announcement, saying, "Tomorrow will be a festival dedicated to the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next morning, they rose early and presented burnt offerings and brought peace offerings. Then the people sat down to eat and drink, and afterward, they got up to celebrate and engage in revelry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Go down at once, for your people, whom you brought out of the land of Egypt, have acted corruptly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have quickly turned away from the path I commanded them to follow. They have made for themselves a cast metal calf, bowed down to it, and offered sacrifices to it, declaring, "These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "I have observed this people, and indeed, they are a stubborn and obstinate people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Now, therefore, step aside and do not interfere, so that my anger may burn fiercely against them and I may destroy them. Then I will make you into a great nation instead."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses pleaded with the LORD his God, saying, "LORD, why does your anger burn against your people, whom you brought out of the land of Egypt with such great power and a mighty hand?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why should the Egyptians say, "He brought them out with evil intent, to kill them in the mountains and wipe them from the face of the earth"? Turn away from your burning anger and relent from bringing this disaster upon your people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants, to whom you swore by your own name and declared to them, "I will make your descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky, and I will give all this land I have spoken of to your descendants. They will possess it as their inheritance forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the LORD relented from the disaster He had planned to bring upon His people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses turned and descended from the mountain, carrying the two tablets of the covenant in his hands. The tablets were inscribed on both sides, with writing on the front and on the back.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The tablets were the work of God, and the inscription was the writing of God, engraved upon the tablets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Joshua heard the sound of the people shouting, he said to Moses, "There is a sound of battle in the camp."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "This is not the sound of those shouting in victory, nor is it the sound of those crying out in defeat. What I hear is the sound of people singing."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As soon as Moses approached the camp and saw the calf and the people dancing, his anger burned fiercely. In his rage, he threw the stone tablets from his hands and shattered them at the base of the mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses took the calf that they had made, burned it in the fire, and ground it into fine powder. He then scattered the powder over the water and made the Israelites drink it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to Aaron, "What did these people do to you, that you have led them into such a grievous sin?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron replied, "Please do not let your anger burn, my lord. You know how these people are inclined toward wrongdoing."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002462"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to me, "Make us gods who will go before us, because as for this Moses, the man who brought us out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has happened to him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002463"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I said to them, "Whoever has any gold, let them take it off." So they gave it to me, and I threw it into the fire, and out came this calf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002464"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Moses saw that the people were unrestrained and out of control—for Aaron had allowed them to become unruly, exposing them to disgrace before their enemies—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002465"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Moses stood at the entrance to the camp and declared, "Whoever is on the Lord's side, come to me." And all the descendants of Levi gathered around him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002466"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: 'Each of you must strap your sword to your side. Go back and forth through the camp, from one gate to another, and kill your brothers, your friends, and your neighbors.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002467"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Levi acted in accordance with Moses' command, and on that day, approximately three thousand men among the people were struck down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002468"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses had instructed, "Dedicate yourselves today to the LORD, each of you, even at the cost of your own son or brother, so that He may grant you a blessing this day."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002469"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, Moses said to the people, "You have committed a grave sin. Now I will go up to the LORD; perhaps I can seek reconciliation for your wrongdoing."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002470"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses went back to the LORD and said, "Oh, these people have committed a terrible sin. They have made gods of gold for themselves."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002471"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Yet now, if you are willing to forgive their sin—but if not, I beg you, erase my name from the book you have written."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002472"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Whoever has sinned against me, I will erase their name from my book."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002473"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, go now and lead the people to the place I have told you about. Behold, my Angel will go ahead of you. However, when the time comes for me to hold them accountable, I will punish them for their sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002474"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD brought a plague upon the people because they had made the calf—the idol that Aaron had fashioned for them.</span></p>






</body></html>