<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 29</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svbs4c.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a30071d0-6cfe-d7e1-a4b5-b68f96297ca2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 29</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the terms of the covenant that the LORD commanded Moses to establish with the Israelites in the land of Moab, in addition to the covenant He had made with them at Horeb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses summoned all the people of Israel and said to them, "You have witnessed everything the LORD did before your very eyes in the land of Egypt—to Pharaoh, to all his officials, and to his entire land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The severe trials that your eyes have witnessed, the signs, and those extraordinary miracles:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, to this very day, the LORD has not granted you a heart to understand, eyes to see, or ears to hear.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have guided you for forty years through the wilderness: your clothes have not worn out, nor have your sandals deteriorated on your feet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have not eaten bread, nor have you drunk wine or any alcoholic drink, so that you might come to understand that I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you arrived at this place, Sihon, the king of Heshbon, and Og, the king of Bashan, came out to confront us in battle, but we defeated them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We conquered their land and assigned it as an inheritance to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, carefully observe and follow the terms of this covenant, so that you may succeed in everything you undertake.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today, all of you stand before the LORD your God—your tribal leaders, your elders, your officials, and every man of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your children, your wives, and the foreigner living among you in your camp—from those who cut your wood to those who draw your water—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to enter into a covenant with the LORD your God, and into the solemn agreement that the LORD your God is establishing with you today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that He may confirm you today as His own people, and that He may be your God, just as He has promised you and as He swore to your ancestors—to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"I am not making this covenant and this solemn promise with you alone."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But this covenant is not only for those who stand here with us today in the presence of the LORD our God, but also for those who are not here with us this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are aware of how we lived in the land of Egypt and how we journeyed through the nations you passed by.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have witnessed their detestable practices and their idols—made of wood and stone, silver and gold—that were among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful that there is no one among you—whether man, woman, family, or tribe—whose heart turns away today from the LORD our God to go and worship the gods of these nations. Be on guard, for there may be among you a root that produces bitterness and poison.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if it happens that when he hears the words of this warning, he comforts himself in his heart, thinking, "I will have peace, even though I continue to follow the stubbornness of my own desires, adding more sin to my guilt,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will not show him mercy, but the anger and intense jealousy of the LORD will burn against that person. All the curses written in this book will come upon him, and the LORD will erase his name from under heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will single him out for disaster from all the tribes of Israel, in accordance with all the curses of the covenant recorded in this book of the law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that the generation to come—your children who will rise up after you, and the foreigner who comes from a distant land—will say, when they see the plagues of this land and the diseases with which the LORD has afflicted it:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire land is a wasteland of sulfur, salt, and scorched earth—unsown, barren, and without a blade of grass growing in it. It resembles the destruction of Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboim, which the Lord overthrew in His fierce anger and wrath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the nations will ask, "Why has the LORD dealt with this land in such a way? What is the reason for this intense and overwhelming anger?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then people will say, "Because they abandoned the covenant of the LORD, the God of their ancestors, which He established with them when He brought them out of the land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They turned away and worshiped other gods, gods they did not know, gods that had not been given to them by the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD's anger burned against this land, causing all the curses written in this book to come upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD uprooted them from their land in fierce anger, burning wrath, and profound indignation, and banished them to a foreign land, as is evident to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The hidden matters belong to the LORD our God, but the things that have been revealed belong to us and to our children forever, so that we may carry out all the words of this law.</span></p>






</body></html>