<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svcmnh.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2bd0a55f-654a-4a64-7fb4-d15d2a0b8138" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then one of the seven angels who held the seven bowls came and spoke to me, saying, "Come here, and I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute who sits upon many waters."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The kings of the earth have engaged in immoral alliances with her, and the people of the earth have become intoxicated by the seductive influence of her corrupt practices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So I was taken in the Spirit into a desolate wilderness, and there I saw a woman seated on a scarlet beast covered with blasphemous names. It had seven heads and ten horns.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman was clothed in garments of purple and scarlet, adorned with gold, precious stones, and pearls. In her hand, she held a golden cup filled with detestable things and the impurities of her immoral acts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And on her forehead was inscribed a name: "MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF PROSTITUTES AND OF THE DETESTABLE THINGS OF THE EARTH."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw the woman intoxicated with the blood of God’s holy people and with the blood of those who bore witness to Jesus. When I saw her, I was utterly astonished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The angel said to me, "Why are you astonished? I will explain to you the mystery of the woman and of the beast that carries her, the one with the seven heads and ten horns."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The beast that you saw once existed, but now it does not; yet it will rise again from the bottomless pit and meet its ultimate destruction. Those who live on the earth—whose names have not been recorded in the book of life since the creation of the world—will be astonished when they see the beast that once was, now is no more, and yet will come again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here is the understanding for those who have wisdom: The seven heads represent seven mountains, upon which the woman is seated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There are seven kings: five have fallen, one is currently reigning, and the other has not yet come. When he does come, he will remain for only a brief time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The beast that once existed, now does not, and yet will come again, is the eighth. It belongs to the group of seven and is destined for destruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ten horns that you saw represent ten kings who have not yet received their kingdoms, but they will receive authority to rule as kings for a brief period alongside the beast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These individuals are united in purpose and will devote their authority and resources to the beast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These forces will wage war against the Lamb, but the Lamb will triumph over them, for he is the supreme Lord of all lords and the ultimate King of all kings. Those who stand with him are the ones who have been called, chosen, and remain steadfastly faithful.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to me, "The waters that you saw, where the prostitute sits, represent peoples, multitudes, nations, and languages."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ten horns that you saw on the beast represent those who will despise the prostitute. They will bring her to ruin, stripping her bare and devouring her flesh. Finally, they will burn her completely with fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For God has placed it in their hearts to carry out His purpose, to come to a mutual agreement, and to hand over their authority to the beast, until the words of God are fully accomplished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman you saw represents that great city that holds dominion over the kings of the earth.</span></p>






</body></html>