<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svfnks.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4de42e28-1815-5256-7088-c1501dcade7f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 23</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and tell them: These are the appointed times of the LORD, which you are to declare as sacred gatherings—these are My appointed festivals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For six days, work is to be done, but the seventh day is a Sabbath of complete rest, a sacred assembly. You must not do any work on that day; it is the Sabbath of the LORD in all your homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the appointed festivals of the LORD, sacred gatherings that you are to announce at their designated times.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fourteenth day of the first month, at twilight, is the Passover of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fifteenth day of that same month, you shall observe the Festival of Unleavened Bread in honor of the LORD. For seven days, you are to eat bread made without yeast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the first day, you shall hold a sacred assembly; you must not engage in any ordinary labor on that day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you must present a burnt offering to the LORD for seven days. On the seventh day, there is to be a sacred assembly; you are not to do any ordinary work on that day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the Israelites and tell them: When you enter the land I am giving to you and gather its harvest, you are to bring a bundle of the first ripe grain from your harvest to the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall present the sheaf as an offering before the LORD, so that it may be accepted on your behalf. He shall wave it on the day after the Sabbath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the day when you present the sheaf, you shall offer a male lamb in its first year, without defect, as a burnt offering to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The grain offering to accompany it shall consist of two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil, a food offering presented by fire to the LORD, producing a pleasing aroma. The drink offering to accompany it shall be a quarter of a hin of wine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not eat any bread, roasted grain, or fresh grain until the very day you bring an offering to your God. This is to be a permanent regulation for all your generations, applicable in all the places where you live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to count for yourselves starting from the day after the Sabbath, from the day you brought the sheaf of the wave offering; seven full weeks shall be completed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003419"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Count fifty days, up to the day after the seventh Sabbath, and then present a new grain offering to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003420"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to bring from your dwellings two loaves of bread as a wave offering, each made from two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour. They are to be baked with leaven and presented as the firstfruits to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003421"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present with the bread seven unblemished lambs, each in its first year, one young bull, and two rams. These shall be a burnt offering to the LORD, along with their grain offering and drink offerings—an offering made by fire, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall offer one male goat as a sin offering and two one-year-old lambs as a peace offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall present them, along with the bread of the firstfruits, as a wave offering before the LORD, together with the two lambs. They shall be set apart as holy to the LORD and belong to the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that very day, you are to announce a sacred assembly; it shall be a holy gathering for you. You must not engage in any ordinary work. This is to be a permanent statute for all your generations, in every place where you live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you harvest the crops of your land, you must not completely harvest the edges of your field, nor should you gather up the leftover grain from your harvest. Instead, you are to leave these for the poor and the foreigner. I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell the Israelites this: On the first day of the seventh month, you are to observe a day of complete rest, a sacred assembly marked by the sounding of trumpets. This day will serve as a memorial, a time to gather in holiness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not perform any ordinary labor on that day, but you are to present a burnt offering to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, on the tenth day of this seventh month, there shall be a Day of Atonement. It is to be a sacred assembly for you, and you must humble yourselves and present a food offering made by fire to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not do any work on that same day, for it is a day of atonement, a time to seek reconciliation for yourselves before the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any person does not humble themselves on that same day, they will be separated from their community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any person does any work on that same day, I will cut that person off from among the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not engage in any kind of work. This is to be a permanent regulation for all your generations, wherever you live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This day shall be a Sabbath of complete rest for you, and you must humble yourselves. On the ninth day of the month, beginning at evening, from evening to evening, you are to observe your Sabbath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell the Israelites: On the fifteenth day of this seventh month, the Festival of Tabernacles will begin, lasting seven days in honor of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the first day, there shall be a sacred assembly; you must not engage in any ordinary labor on that day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For seven days, you shall present an offering by fire to the LORD. On the eighth day, you shall hold a sacred gathering and present another offering by fire to the LORD. This is a solemn assembly, and you must not engage in any ordinary work on that day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the appointed festivals of the LORD, which you are to declare as sacred assemblies, to present offerings made by fire to the LORD—a burnt offering, a grain offering, a sacrifice, and drink offerings—each on its designated day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In addition to the LORD's Sabbaths, and besides your offerings, as well as all your vows and all the voluntary gifts that you present to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fifteenth day of the seventh month, after you have gathered the produce of the land, you shall celebrate a festival to the LORD for seven days. The first day shall be a day of complete rest, and the eighth day shall also be a day of complete rest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the first day, you shall gather branches from majestic trees, palm fronds, boughs from leafy trees, and willows from the stream. You shall celebrate before the LORD your God for seven days, rejoicing in His presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to observe a feast to the LORD for seven days each year. This shall be a permanent statute throughout your generations. You are to celebrate it in the seventh month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall live in temporary shelters for seven days; all who are native Israelites must live in these shelters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is so that your descendants may understand that I caused the Israelites to live in temporary shelters when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. I am the LORD your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses communicated to the Israelites the appointed festivals of the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>