<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svjpeo.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:052c640e-da94-cfed-bdd5-cdfcfafa4cb8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Suddenly, a man of God came from Judah to Bethel, sent by the command of the LORD. At that time, Jeroboam was standing by the altar, preparing to offer incense.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he proclaimed a message from the LORD against the altar, saying, "O altar, altar, this is what the LORD declares: Listen! A child will be born to the house of David, and his name will be Josiah. He will sacrifice on you the priests of the high places who burn incense on you, and human bones will be burned on you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that same day, he provided a sign, declaring, "This is the sign the LORD has spoken: The altar will be split apart, and the ashes that are upon it will be scattered."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When King Jeroboam heard the words of the man of God, who had proclaimed judgment against the altar in Bethel, he stretched out his hand from the altar and commanded, "Seize him!" But the hand he stretched out against the man withered and became paralyzed, so that he could not pull it back to himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The altar split apart, and the ashes spilled out from it, just as the man of God had foretold by the command of the LORD. This happened as a sign confirming the word he had spoken.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king responded to the man of God, saying, "Please, appeal to the LORD your God and pray for me, so that my hand may be restored." The man of God then pleaded with the LORD, and the king’s hand was restored, becoming as it was before.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to the man of God, "Come back to my house with me, rest and refresh yourself, and I will give you a gift."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man of God said to the king, "Even if you were to give me half of your kingdom, I would not go with you, nor would I eat bread or drink water in this place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what I was commanded by the word of the LORD: "Do not eat any bread, nor drink any water, nor return by the same way you came."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he took a different route and did not return by the same path he had taken to Bethel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now there lived an old prophet in Bethel. His sons came and told him about all the deeds the man of God had performed that day in Bethel, including the words he had spoken to the king. They recounted all of this to their father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their father asked them, "Which way did he go?" For his sons had seen the path taken by the man of God who had come from Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to his sons, "Prepare the donkey for me." So they prepared the donkey, and he rode on it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He followed after the man of God and found him sitting under an oak tree. He asked him, "Are you the man of God who came from Judah?" The man replied, "I am."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to him, "Come to my house with me, and let us share a meal."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "I cannot go back with you, nor enter with you into this place. I will not eat bread or drink water with you here."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD instructed me with this command: "You must not eat any bread or drink any water there, nor return by the same way you came."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to him, "I am also a prophet like you, and an angel spoke to me by the command of the LORD, saying, 'Bring him back with you to your house, so that he may eat bread and drink water.'" But he was lying to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he returned with him, ate bread at his house, and drank water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they were sitting at the table, the word of the LORD came to the prophet who had brought him back.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he called out to the man of God who had come from Judah, saying, "This is what the LORD says: Because you have disobeyed the word of the LORD and have not kept the command that the LORD your God gave you,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you turned back and ate bread and drank water in the place where the LORD had told you, "Do not eat bread or drink water." As a result, your body will not be laid to rest in the tomb of your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had eaten the meal and drunk, he prepared the donkey for the prophet he had brought back, saddling it for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had left, a lion encountered him on the road and killed him. His body was left lying on the path, with the donkey standing beside it, and the lion also remained standing next to the corpse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they went along, some people passed by and noticed the body lying on the road with the lion standing beside it. They went and reported what they had seen in the city where the old prophet lived.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the prophet who had brought him back from his journey heard about this, he said, "It is the man of God who disobeyed the command of the LORD. That is why the LORD handed him over to the lion, which mauled and killed him, just as the LORD had warned him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He instructed his sons, saying, "Prepare the donkey for me." And they prepared it for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He went and found the man’s body lying on the road, with the donkey and the lion standing beside it. The lion had not eaten the body or attacked the donkey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prophet lifted the body of the man of God, placed it on the donkey, and carried it back. The old prophet then entered the city to mourn and bury him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They placed his body in his own tomb, and they mourned for him, lamenting, "Oh, my brother!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had buried him, he spoke to his sons, saying, "When I die, bury me in the tomb where the man of God is buried. Place my bones beside his bones."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prophecy that he proclaimed by the word of the LORD against the altar in Bethel and against all the shrines on the high places in the cities of Samaria will certainly be fulfilled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this incident, Jeroboam did not turn away from his wicked ways. Instead, he once again appointed priests for the high places from among the lowest of the people. Whoever desired to be a priest, he would consecrate them, and they would become priests of the high places.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This act became a sin for the house of Jeroboam, leading to its complete destruction and eradication from the face of the earth.</span></p>






</body></html>