<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svkkpi.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4bca6637-a466-af6c-3210-e4017bdb1972" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD said to Moses, "Go to Pharaoh and say to him, 'This is what the LORD, the God of the Hebrews, declares: Release my people, so that they may worship me.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you refuse to let them go and continue to hold them captive,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the hand of the LORD will strike your livestock in the fields—your horses, donkeys, camels, cattle, and sheep—with a severe and deadly plague.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will make a distinction between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt, so that none of the animals belonging to the Israelites will die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD set a specific time, declaring, "Tomorrow the LORD will accomplish this thing in the land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD carried out this act the next day, and all the livestock of Egypt died, but not a single animal belonging to the Israelites perished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh sent messengers to investigate, and indeed, not a single animal belonging to the Israelites had died. Yet Pharaoh’s heart remained stubborn, and he refused to let the people go.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses and Aaron, "Take handfuls of soot from the furnace, and have Moses scatter it toward the sky in Pharaoh's presence."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The dust will spread throughout the entire land of Egypt, and it will cause painful boils to break out, forming sores on both people and animals across all of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they took soot from the kiln and stood before Pharaoh. Moses tossed it into the air, and it caused festering boils to break out on both people and animals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The magicians could no longer stand before Moses because of the boils, for the boils afflicted both the magicians and all the Egyptians.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD caused Pharaoh's heart to become stubborn, and he refused to listen to them, just as the LORD had told Moses would happen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Get up early in the morning, present yourself before Pharaoh, and say to him, 'This is what the LORD, the God of the Hebrews, declares: Let my people go, so that they may worship me.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For at this time, I will bring all my plagues upon you, your officials, and your people, so that you may understand that there is no one like me in all the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now I will extend my hand to strike you and your people with a deadly plague, and you will be removed from the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, for this very purpose I have raised you up, to demonstrate my power through you, and so that my name may be proclaimed throughout the entire earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are you still arrogantly opposing my people, refusing to let them go?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: Tomorrow at this same time, I will send a devastating hailstorm, the likes of which Egypt has never seen from the day it was founded until now.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, act now and bring in your livestock and everything you have in the field to safety. For every person and animal that remains in the field and is not brought back to shelter will be struck by the hail and will die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those among Pharaoh’s officials who respected the word of the LORD hurried to bring their servants and livestock inside their homes for safety.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And whoever paid no attention to the warning of the LORD left his servants and his livestock out in the open field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Reach out your hand toward the sky, so that hail may fall across the entire land of Egypt—on people, on animals, and on every plant in the fields throughout the land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses raised his staff toward the sky, and the LORD sent thunder and hail, with fire flashing down to the earth. The LORD caused hail to fall upon the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then hail fell, accompanied by blazing fire, so severe that nothing like it had ever occurred in the entire land of Egypt since it first became a nation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The hail struck throughout the entire land of Egypt, destroying everything in the open fields—both people and animals. It battered every plant in the fields and shattered every tree.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Only in the region of Goshen, where the Israelites lived, was there no hail.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh sent for Moses and Aaron and said to them, "This time I have sinned. The LORD is just, but I and my people are guilty."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Plead with the LORD, for this is more than enough—that there be no more violent thunderings and hail. I will let you go, and you will not have to stay any longer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to him, "As soon as I leave the city, I will lift up my hands in prayer to the LORD. The thunder will stop, and there will be no more hail, so that you may know the earth belongs to the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But concerning you and your servants, I am aware that you still do not truly revere the LORD God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The flax and the barley were destroyed, for the barley was in the ear and the flax was in bloom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the wheat and the rye were not destroyed, because they had not yet reached maturity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses left the city and went out from Pharaoh’s presence. He lifted his hands in prayer to the LORD, and the thunder, hail, and rain stopped; no more rain fell upon the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Pharaoh saw that the rain, hail, and thunder had stopped, he continued to sin and stubbornly hardened his heart, as did his officials.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh’s heart remained stubborn, and he refused to let the Israelites go, just as the LORD had said through Moses.</span></p>






</body></html>