<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svoj6q.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9b40bc54-712d-cc2f-c9dc-0b412ab51acb" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If only my head were filled with water, and my eyes a flowing spring of tears, so that I could weep day and night for the slain of my people, the children of my nation!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How I wish I had a shelter in the wilderness, a place for travelers to rest, so I could leave my people and go far away from them! For they are all unfaithful, a gathering of deceitful and treacherous people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They aim their tongues like a bow to shoot lies, but they lack courage to stand for the truth in the land. They move from one wicked act to another, and they do not acknowledge me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be cautious of everyone around you, and do not place your trust in any brother, for every brother is likely to deceive, and every neighbor will spread slander.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each person will deceive their neighbor and will not speak truthfully. They have trained their tongues to speak lies and exhaust themselves in doing wrong.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your dwelling is surrounded by deception; through their deceit, they have chosen not to acknowledge me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD of hosts declares: "Behold, I will refine them and test them, for what else can I do for the sake of my people?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their words are like a sharp arrow, aimed to wound; they speak with deception. With their mouths, they speak kindly to their neighbors, but in their hearts, they plot harm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Should I not punish them for these deeds?" says the LORD. "Should I not avenge myself on a nation like this?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will weep and mourn for the mountains, and I will lament for the pastures of the wilderness, for they have been scorched and laid waste, leaving no one able to pass through. The sound of livestock is no longer heard; both the birds of the sky and the wild animals have fled and disappeared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will reduce Jerusalem to ruins, a place overrun by wild creatures; and I will make the cities of Judah desolate, leaving them without a single inhabitant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who is the wise person who can understand this? And who is the one to whom the LORD has spoken, so that they may explain it? Why has the land been ruined and laid waste like a desert, so that no one passes through it?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares, "Because they have abandoned the law I gave them and have not listened to my voice or followed it in their lives..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But they have followed the desires of their own hearts and have pursued the worship of Baal, as their ancestors taught them to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Listen carefully, I will provide this people with bitter hardship, like feeding them wormwood, and I will give them poisoned water to drink.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will disperse them among the nations, peoples whom neither they nor their ancestors have ever known. I will pursue them with the sword until I have completely destroyed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts says: "Think carefully about this, and summon the professional mourners to come; send for the skilled women who wail, so they may come as well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hurry and raise a lament for us, so that our eyes may overflow with tears, and our eyelids pour out streams of water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A cry of mourning rises from Zion: "How utterly we are ruined! We are overwhelmed with shame, for we have abandoned the land, and our homes have driven us away."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to the word of the LORD, you women, and let your ears take in the message from His mouth. Teach your daughters how to mourn, and each of you instruct your neighbor in lamentation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For death has climbed in through our windows and entered our homes, destroying the children outside and the young men in the streets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Proclaim this message: Thus says the LORD, "The dead bodies of people will fall like dung on the open fields, like cut grain left behind by the reaper, with no one to gather them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "The wise must not boast in their wisdom, nor the strong in their strength, nor the wealthy in their riches."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, let the one who boasts boast in this: that they understand and know me, for I am the LORD who acts with steadfast love, justice, and righteousness in the earth. Indeed, I delight in these things, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, the time is coming, declares the LORD, when I will bring judgment on all who are circumcised in the flesh but remain uncircumcised in heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Egypt, Judah, Edom, the Ammonites, Moab, and all those who live in the farthest regions, those who dwell in the wilderness—all these nations are uncircumcised, and even the entire house of Israel is uncircumcised in their hearts.</span></p>






</body></html>