<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svoxt1.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:32cf8a53-02db-a68f-4ffc-41caf1569a2e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 14</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One day, Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who carried his armor, "Come, let us cross over to the Philistine garrison on the other side." However, he did not inform his father about this plan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul remained at the farthest edge of Gibeah, beneath a pomegranate tree in Migron. The men with him numbered about six hundred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, who was the brother of Ichabod and the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli—the priest of the LORD in Shiloh—was wearing the ephod. However, the people were unaware that Jonathan had left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Between the paths that Jonathan intended to take to reach the Philistine outpost, there stood a jagged cliff on one side and another jagged cliff on the other. The name of one cliff was Bozez, and the name of the other was Seneh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The first outpost was positioned to the north, facing Michmash, while the second was to the south, facing Gibeah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan said to the young man who carried his armor, "Come, let us cross over to the outpost of these uncircumcised men. Perhaps the LORD will act on our behalf, for nothing can hinder the LORD from saving, whether by many or by few."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his armor-bearer said to him, "Do whatever you have decided in your heart. Go ahead, and I will stand with you, fully committed to your purpose."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jonathan said, "Look, we will cross over to these men and reveal ourselves to them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If they say to us, "Wait until we come to you," then we will remain in our position and not advance toward them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if they respond by saying, "Come up to us," then we will go up, for the LORD has given them into our hands. This will be the sign for us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then both of them revealed themselves to the Philistine outpost, and the Philistines exclaimed, "Look! The Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they had been hiding!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The soldiers stationed at the outpost called out to Jonathan and his armor-bearer, saying, "Come up to us, and we will show you something." Jonathan replied to his armor-bearer, "Follow me, for the LORD has given them into the hands of Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan climbed up using his hands and feet, with his armor-bearer following behind him. They fell before Jonathan, and his armor-bearer struck down those who came after him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The initial attack carried out by Jonathan and his armor-bearer resulted in the death of approximately twenty men, all within an area of land about half the size of what a pair of oxen could plow in a day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And there was great fear throughout the camp, in the open field, and among all the people. The garrison and the raiders were also terrified, and the ground shook violently. It was an overwhelming and immense trembling.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul’s sentries stationed in Gibeah of Benjamin looked out and saw the enemy forces scattering in every direction, with the soldiers attacking and striking each other down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul said to the people with him, "Take a count now and see who has left us." So they counted, and it became clear that Jonathan and his armor-bearer were missing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said to Ahijah, "Bring the ark of God here." For at that time, the ark of God was with the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As Saul was speaking to the priest, the commotion in the camp of the Philistines grew louder and more intense. Saul then said to the priest, "Stop what you are doing."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul and all the people with him gathered together and advanced to the battle. But when they arrived, they found that every man’s sword was turned against his companion, and there was immense confusion and chaos.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the Hebrews who had previously been allied with the Philistines—those who had joined them in the camp from the surrounding regions—also defected and sided with the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Similarly, all the men of Israel who had hidden themselves in the hill country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines were fleeing, also joined in the pursuit and fought fiercely against them in the battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the LORD delivered Israel that day, and the battle moved on toward Beth-aven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the men of Israel were in great distress because Saul had made the people take a solemn oath, saying, "Cursed is anyone who eats any food before evening, so that I may take vengeance on my enemies." As a result, none of the people tasted any food.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007534"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people of the land came to a forest, and they found honey on the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007535"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people entered the forest, they saw honey dripping from the trees, but no one dared to taste it or raise their hand to their mouth, for the people were deeply afraid of the oath they had sworn.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007536"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Jonathan had not heard his father’s command to the people, which included an oath. So he reached out with the staff in his hand, dipped it into a honeycomb, and brought it to his mouth. As he tasted it, his eyes brightened with renewed energy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007537"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then one of the people spoke up and said, "Your father solemnly bound the people with an oath, saying, 'Cursed is anyone who eats food today.'" And the people were exhausted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007538"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jonathan said, "My father has brought trouble upon the land. Please, look how my eyes have brightened because I tasted a little of this honey."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007539"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How much greater would the outcome have been if the people had freely eaten today from the plunder of their enemies that they had taken? Would there not have been an even greater slaughter of the Philistines?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007540"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, they struck down the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon, but the people were utterly exhausted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people rushed to seize the plunder, taking sheep, oxen, and calves, and slaughtered them on the ground. Then they ate the meat with the blood still in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they informed Saul, saying, "Look, the people are sinning against the LORD by eating meat with the blood still in it." Saul responded, "You have acted unfaithfully. Bring a large stone to me here today."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul commanded, "Spread out among the people and tell them, 'Each of you must bring your ox or your sheep here, slaughter them in this place, and eat. But do not sin against the LORD by eating the meat with the blood still in it.'" That night, all the people brought their oxen and slaughtered them there as instructed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul constructed an altar to the LORD; this was the first altar he ever built in honor of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said, "Let us go down and attack the Philistines by night, plundering them until dawn, and let us not leave a single one of them alive." His men replied, "Do whatever seems right to you." Then the priest said, "Let us approach God here and seek His guidance."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul sought guidance from God, asking, "Should I pursue the Philistines? Will you hand them over to Israel?" But God did not answer him that day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said, "Come here, all you leaders of the people, and carefully consider and determine where this sin has occurred today."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As surely as the LORD lives, the one who saves Israel, even if it is my son Jonathan, he must certainly die." But not a single person among all the people responded to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul said to all Israel, "You stand on one side, and I and my son Jonathan will stand on the other side." The people replied to Saul, "Do whatever seems right to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, Saul prayed to the LORD, the God of Israel, "Grant a clear answer." And the lot fell on Saul and Jonathan, but the people were spared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul said, "Cast lots between me and my son Jonathan." And the lot fell on Jonathan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul said to Jonathan, "Tell me what you have done." Jonathan replied, "I only tasted a little honey with the tip of the staff I was holding. And now, I must die."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul responded, "May God punish me severely and even more if you do not die, Jonathan."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people said to Saul, "Should Jonathan die, even though he has brought about this great deliverance for Israel? Far be it from us! As surely as the LORD lives, not a single hair on his head will be harmed, for he has acted with God’s help today." So the people intervened and saved Jonathan, and he did not die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Saul ceased pursuing the Philistines, the Philistines returned to their own territory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Saul assumed the kingship over Israel and waged war against all his surrounding enemies—against Moab, the Ammonites, Edom, the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines. Wherever he went, he brought distress and defeat upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He assembled an army, attacked the Amalekites, and rescued Israel from the grasp of those who had been plundering them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul had three sons: Jonathan, Ishui, and Melchi-shua. He also had two daughters: the older was named Merab, and the younger was named Michal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul’s wife was named Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz. The commander of his army was Abner, the son of Ner, who was Saul’s uncle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner, the father of Abner, was the son of Abiel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was intense and ongoing warfare against the Philistines throughout Saul’s reign. Whenever Saul encountered a strong or courageous man, he would recruit him into his service.</span></p>






</body></html>