<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svuf8t.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3da5040e-0505-1036-1685-de2e548158e9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said, “Look, we are your own flesh and blood."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In earlier times, when Saul was king over us, you were the one who led Israel out and brought them back. The LORD said to you, "You will shepherd my people Israel, and you will be their ruler."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and King David established a covenant with them there in the presence of the LORD. Then they anointed David as king over Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David was thirty years old when he became king, and he ruled for forty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In Hebron, he ruled as king over Judah for seven years and six months. Then, in Jerusalem, he reigned for thirty-three years over all of Israel and Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king and his men advanced to Jerusalem, to confront the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land. The Jebusites said to David, "You will not enter here unless you remove the blind and the lame," believing that David could not possibly breach their defenses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, David captured the fortress of Zion, which is now known as the City of David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, David declared, "Whoever attacks the Jebusites and strikes down those who are lame and blind—those whom David despises—shall become the leader and commander." Because of this, it was said, "The blind and the lame shall not enter the house."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David settled in the stronghold and named it the City of David. He then built up the surrounding area, starting from the Millo and working inward.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David continued to advance and became increasingly powerful, for the LORD, the God of armies, was with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hiram, the king of Tyre, sent messengers to David, along with cedar logs, carpenters, and stonemasons. They constructed a house for David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David realized that the LORD had firmly established him as king over Israel and had elevated his kingdom for the sake of his people, Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After David moved from Hebron to Jerusalem, he took additional wives and concubines from Jerusalem. As a result, more sons and daughters were born to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the names of the children born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ibhar, Elishua, Nepheg, and Japhia.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphalet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Philistines learned that David had been anointed as king over Israel, they all mobilized and went out to search for him. David heard about their advance and retreated to the stronghold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines also advanced and deployed their forces throughout the Valley of Rephaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David sought guidance from the LORD, asking, "Should I go and attack the Philistines? Will you hand them over to me?" The LORD replied to David, "Go, for I will certainly deliver the Philistines into your hands."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David went to Baal-perazim and defeated his enemies there. He declared, "The LORD has broken through against my enemies before me, like a bursting flood of water." Because of this, he named that place Baal-perazim, meaning "The Lord of the Breakthrough."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And there they abandoned their idols, so David and his men set them on fire and destroyed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines advanced once more and deployed their forces across the Valley of Rephaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When David sought guidance from the LORD, the response was, "Do not advance directly against them. Instead, circle around behind them and approach them from the opposite side, near the mulberry trees."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry trees, then you must act decisively, for at that moment the LORD will go out ahead of you to strike down the army of the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David carried out the command of the LORD exactly as he had been instructed. He struck down the Philistines, advancing from Geba all the way to Gezer.</span></p>






</body></html>