<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svv37f.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:98d3e96e-a9cb-233c-c76f-aabef4eb4e18" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the message of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and proclaim this message to Jerusalem, saying: This is what the LORD declares: I remember you, the devotion of your early years, the love you showed when you were pledged to me, when you followed me through the wilderness, through a land that was barren and unsown.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Israel was set apart as holy to the LORD, like the first and best portion of His harvest. Anyone who consumes or harms them will be held guilty, and disaster will come upon them, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to the word of the LORD, O descendants of Jacob, and all the families of the house of Israel:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: What wrongdoing have your ancestors found in me, that they have turned away from me and pursued worthless idols, only to become worthless themselves?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They did not ask, "Where is the LORD who brought us out of Egypt, who guided us through the wilderness—a land of deserts and ravines, a land of drought and the shadow of death, a land no one had crossed and where no one lived?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I led you into a fertile and abundant land, so that you might enjoy its fruit and all its goodness. But when you entered, you defiled my land and turned my inheritance into something detestable.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests did not ask, "Where is the LORD?" Those who were entrusted with the law did not acknowledge me. The leaders also rebelled against me, and the prophets spoke in the name of Baal, pursuing worthless idols that bring no benefit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will continue to contend with you, declares the LORD, and I will also contend with your descendants after you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Travel to the coasts of Cyprus and observe; send messengers to Kedar and examine carefully. See if anything like this has ever happened.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Has any nation ever exchanged its gods, even though they are not truly gods? Yet my people have traded their glorious God for something utterly worthless.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be utterly amazed, O heavens, at this, and tremble with great fear; be completely appalled, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My people have committed two great wrongs: they have abandoned me, the source of living water, and have instead dug for themselves cracked cisterns—cisterns that cannot hold water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is Israel a servant? Is he a slave born in the household? Why then has he become plundered?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The young lions roared against him and raised their voices in a fierce cry, leaving his land desolate. His cities lie in ruins, utterly abandoned and consumed by fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Noph and Tahpanhes have shattered the strength of your leadership.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have you not brought this upon yourself by abandoning the LORD your God, even as He guided you along the way?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, why would you turn to the way of Egypt, to drink from the waters of the Nile? Or why would you seek the way of Assyria, to drink from the waters of the Euphrates?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your own wrongdoing will bring about your correction, and your acts of turning away will serve as your rebuke. Understand and recognize that it is a terrible and bitter thing to have abandoned the LORD your God, and that reverence for me is no longer in you, declares the Lord GOD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Long ago, I broke your yoke and shattered your chains, yet you declared, "I will not rebel." But now, you wander on every high hill and beneath every leafy tree, engaging in unfaithfulness and idolatry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I had planted you as a choice vine, entirely from pure and excellent stock. How then have you turned into a corrupt, wild vine, producing fruit that is foreign to me?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even if you wash yourself with lye and use an abundance of soap, your guilt is still deeply stained before me, declares the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How can you say, "I am not defiled; I have not followed the Baals"? Look at your conduct in the valley; consider what you have done. You are like a swift dromedary, running wildly in her ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A wild donkey, accustomed to the wilderness, that sniffs the wind freely in her desire—who can restrain her when she is in heat? All who seek her will not grow weary; in her season, they will find her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Keep your feet from going bare and your throat from becoming parched with thirst. Yet you said, 'It is hopeless! No, for I have loved foreign gods, and I will follow after them.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as a thief feels shame when caught, so the house of Israel is ashamed—they, their kings, their leaders, their priests, and their prophets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They say to a block of wood, "You are my father," and to a stone, "You gave me birth." For they have turned their backs to me and not their faces. Yet in the time of their distress, they will cry out, "Rise up and save us!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But where are the gods you have made for yourselves? Let them rise up, if they can save you in your time of trouble—for you have as many gods as you have cities, O Judah!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why do you argue your case before me? All of you have rebelled against me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have disciplined your children without success; they did not accept correction. Your own sword has consumed your prophets, like a ravaging lion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O generation, pay attention to the word of the LORD. Have I ever been like a barren wilderness to Israel? Or a land of utter darkness? Why then do my people say, “We are free; we will no longer come to you”?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Can a young woman forget her jewelry, or a bride her wedding garments? Yet my people have forgotten me for countless days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why do you go to such lengths to pursue love? In doing so, you have even instructed the wicked in your ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The blood of innocent lives is found on your garments—the blood of the poor who were guiltless. I did not discover this through hidden investigation, but it is plainly evident in all these things.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet you claim, "Because I am innocent, surely his anger will turn away from me." Listen, I will argue my case with you, because you insist, "I have not sinned."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why do you wander so much, constantly changing your path? You will also be put to shame by Egypt, just as you were disgraced by Assyria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, you will depart from him, with your hands on your head, for the LORD has rejected the things in which you placed your trust, and you will not succeed through them.</span></p>






</body></html>