<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svw5b5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:09a1ad75-c12a-8d76-779e-842f3e9e0b1e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 15</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is a prophecy concerning Moab. In a single night, the city of Ar in Moab has been devastated and reduced to silence. Likewise, in that same night, the city of Kir in Moab has been destroyed and left in utter stillness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has gone up to the temple and to Dibon, to the high places, to mourn. Moab will wail over Nebo and over Medeba; on all their heads there will be shaved baldness, and every beard will be cut off.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In their streets, they will wrap themselves in sackcloth as a sign of mourning. On the rooftops of their houses and in the public squares, everyone will wail loudly, weeping profusely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Heshbon and Elealeh will cry out, and their voices will be heard as far as Jahaz. Because of this, the warriors of Moab will shout in distress, and their courage will fail them; they will be overwhelmed with anguish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My heart cries out for Moab; its refugees will flee to Zoar, like a young heifer of three years old. They will ascend the slopes of Luhith with weeping, and on the road to Horonaim, they will raise a desperate cry of devastation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The waters of Nimrim will become a wasteland; the hay has dried up, the grass has perished, and no green plants remain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the wealth they have acquired and the possessions they have stored up, they will carry away to the stream of the poplars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The outcry has spread throughout the borders of Moab; their wailing reaches as far as Eglaim, and their mournful cries extend to Beer-elim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The waters of Dimon will be filled with blood, for I will bring even more upon Dimon—lions against those who escape from Moab and against the survivors of the land.</span></p>






</body></html>