<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Lamentations Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svxh95.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c93122d1-8810-6f66-70c0-b470de8e32d0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Lamentations Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How desolate the city sits, once teeming with people! She has become like a widow, though she was once great among the nations—a princess ruling over provinces. Now she is forced into servitude!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She weeps bitterly through the night, with tears streaming down her cheeks. Among all those who once loved her, there is no one to bring her comfort. All her close companions have betrayed her; they have turned against her as enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah has been taken into captivity due to suffering and harsh oppression. She now lives among foreign nations but finds no peace. All who pursued her have overtaken her in her distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The streets of Zion mourn, for no one comes to the sacred festivals. All her gates are deserted; her priests groan in sorrow, her young women grieve, and she is overwhelmed with bitterness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her foes have gained the upper hand, her enemies thrive; for the LORD has brought suffering upon her because of the abundance of her sins. Her children have been taken captive, led away by the enemy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The splendor of Zion’s daughter has completely faded. Her leaders have become like deer that find no pasture, fleeing without strength before the pursuer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jerusalem, in the days of her suffering and distress, recalled all the precious things she once possessed in former times. When her people fell into the hands of their enemies, and no one came to her aid, her adversaries saw her and mocked her sacred days of rest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jerusalem has sinned grievously; therefore, she has been cast away. All who once honored her now despise her, for they have witnessed her shame. Indeed, she groans in anguish and turns away in disgrace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Her disgrace is evident in her actions; she has forgotten the consequences of her ways. As a result, she has fallen in a shocking manner, with no one to comfort her. O LORD, look upon my suffering, for the enemy has triumphed over me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The enemy has laid his hand on all her precious possessions, for she has witnessed the nations invade her sanctuary—those whom you had commanded not to enter your assembly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All her people groan in despair, searching for bread; they have traded their precious belongings for food just to keep themselves alive. Look, O LORD, and take notice, for I have become despised and disgraced.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Does this mean nothing to you, all who pass by? Look closely and see if there is any suffering like my suffering, which has been inflicted on me—the suffering the LORD has brought upon me in the day of His burning anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From on high, He has sent fire into my bones, and it overpowers them. He has laid a trap for my feet and turned me back. He has left me in desolation, weary and faint all day long.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The burden of my sins is fastened by His hand; they are intertwined and weigh heavily upon my neck. He has caused my strength to fail; the Lord has handed me over to those from whom I cannot rise up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord has trampled all my mighty warriors in my midst; He has summoned an assembly against me to crush my young men. The Lord has trodden down the virgin daughter of Judah as one treads grapes in a winepress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of these things, I weep; my eyes, my eyes overflow with tears, for the one who should bring comfort to my soul is far from me. My children are left in ruin, for the enemy has triumphed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zion stretches out her hands, but there is no one to comfort her. The LORD has decreed concerning Jacob that his enemies will surround him. Jerusalem has become like an unclean woman among them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD is just, for I have rebelled against His command. Listen, I implore you, all people, and see my suffering: my young women and my young men have been taken away as captives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I called out to my allies, but they betrayed me; my priests and elders perished in the city while they searched for food to sustain their lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, O LORD, for I am in great distress; my innermost being is in turmoil, and my heart is overwhelmed within me, for I have rebelled grievously. Outside, the sword brings devastation, and inside, death-like despair prevails.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They have heard my groaning, yet there is no one to comfort me. All my enemies have learned of my distress; they rejoice at what you have done. You will bring about the day you have announced, and they will become like me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May all their wickedness be laid bare before you; deal with them as you have dealt with me for all my sins. For my groans are many, and my heart is weary.</span></p>






</body></html>