<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svxsnh.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5248d25b-5d6c-e347-53a4-4d8b14d5a2b5" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, when Adoni-zedek, the king of Jerusalem, heard how Joshua had captured Ai and completely destroyed it—just as he had done to Jericho and its king, so he had done to Ai and its king—and how the people of Gibeon had made peace with Israel and were now living among them,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were filled with great fear because Gibeon was a major city, like one of the royal cities, and because it was larger than Ai, and all its men were mighty warriors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, Adoni-zedek, the king of Jerusalem, sent messengers to Hoham, the king of Hebron, to Piram, the king of Jarmuth, to Japhia, the king of Lachish, and to Debir, the king of Eglon, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Come up to me and assist me, so that we may attack Gibeon, for they have made a peace agreement with Joshua and the Israelites."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the five kings of the Amorites—the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon—joined forces and advanced with all their armies. They set up camp near Gibeon and prepared to attack it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Gibeon sent a message to Joshua at the camp in Gilgal, saying, "Do not abandon your servants. Come to us quickly, save us, and give us your help, for all the kings of the Amorites who live in the hill country have joined forces and are attacking us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joshua set out from Gilgal, accompanied by all the soldiers and every courageous warrior.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Joshua, "Do not be afraid of them, for I have given them into your power; not one of them will be able to stand against you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua therefore advanced upon them unexpectedly, marching all night from Gilgal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord threw them into confusion before Israel, and inflicted a great defeat on them at Gibeon. He pursued them along the road that ascends to Beth-horon and struck them down all the way to Azekah and Makkedah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the enemy fled before Israel and were descending toward Beth-horon, the LORD hurled large hailstones from the sky upon them all the way to Azekah, and many died. More were killed by the hailstones than by the swords of the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joshua spoke to the LORD on the day when the LORD gave the Amorites over to the Israelites, and he said in the presence of Israel, "Sun, stand still over Gibeon, and Moon, halt in the valley of Ajalon."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sun stopped in its course, and the moon stood still, until the people had fully taken vengeance on their enemies. Is this not recorded in the Book of Jasher? So the sun remained motionless in the middle of the sky and did not hurry to set for nearly an entire day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There has never been a day like that one, either before or since, when the Lord listened to the voice of a man. For the Lord fought on behalf of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua and all the Israelites with him returned to their camp at Gilgal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, these five kings fled and concealed themselves in a cave at Makkedah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua was informed, saying, "The five kings have been discovered hiding in a cave at Makkedah."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua said, "Roll large stones over the entrance of the cave, and station men there to guard them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not delay, but chase after your enemies and strike down those at the rear. Do not allow them to reach their cities, for the LORD your God has given them into your hand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Joshua and the Israelites had finished inflicting a massive defeat on their enemies, completely overwhelming them, the survivors who remained fled to fortified cities for safety.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people returned safely to Joshua at the camp in Makkedah. No one dared to speak a word against any of the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joshua said, "Open the entrance of the cave and bring those five kings out to me from the cave."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They did as instructed and brought the five kings out of the cave to him: the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the kings were brought before Joshua, he summoned all the men of Israel and said to the commanders of the army who had fought alongside him, "Step forward and place your feet on the necks of these kings." They approached and did as Joshua commanded, placing their feet on the necks of the kings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua said to them, "Do not be afraid or discouraged. Be strong and courageous, for this is what the LORD will do to all your enemies whom you fight against."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, Joshua defeated them and put them to death, then hung their bodies on five trees. They remained hanging on the trees until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As the sun was setting, Joshua gave the command, and they took the bodies down from the trees. They threw them into the cave where they had hidden and placed large stones at the entrance of the cave. Those stones remain there to this very day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, Joshua captured Makkedah and struck it down with the sword. He completely destroyed the city, its king, and every person within it, leaving no survivors. He dealt with the king of Makkedah in the same way he had dealt with the king of Jericho.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joshua moved on from Makkedah, accompanied by all Israel, and went to Libnah, where they engaged in battle against it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD also handed over the city and its king to the Israelites. They struck it down with the sword, destroying every living being within it, leaving no one alive. They dealt with its king just as they had done with the king of Jericho.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua moved on from Libnah, accompanied by all Israel, and went to Lachish. They set up camp there and attacked the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD gave Lachish into the hands of Israel, and they captured it on the second day. They struck it down with the sword, destroying every person within it, just as they had done to Libnah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Horam, the king of Gezer, came up to assist Lachish; but Joshua struck him and his army down, leaving no survivors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua then advanced from Lachish to Eglon, accompanied by all the Israelites. They set up camp around the city and attacked it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, they captured the city and struck it down with the sword. They completely destroyed every person within it, just as they had done to Lachish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua advanced from Eglon, accompanied by all Israel, and they marched to Hebron, where they engaged in battle against it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They captured it and struck it down with the sword, along with its king, all its cities, and every living being within it. They left no survivors, just as they had done to Eglon. They completely destroyed it and every living being in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua and all the Israelites with him turned back and went to Debir, where they engaged in battle against it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He captured it, along with its king and all its cities. They struck down the people with the sword and completely destroyed everyone in it, leaving no survivors. Just as he had done to Hebron, he did the same to Debir and its king, and as he had done to Libnah and its king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joshua conquered the entire region—the hill country, the southern areas, the lowlands, and the springs—along with all their kings. He left no survivors, completely destroying everything that lived, just as the LORD, the God of Israel, had commanded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua defeated them from Kadesh-barnea all the way to Gaza, including the entire region of Goshen, extending as far as Gibeon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua conquered all these kings and their territories in a single campaign, for the LORD, the God of Israel, fought on behalf of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua, along with all of Israel, went back to their camp at Gilgal.</span></p>






</body></html>