<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\svy01w.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e9845536-27e5-581c-600a-a90bf6980de0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now it happened that while Apollos was in Corinth, Paul traveled through the inland regions and arrived in Ephesus. There he encountered some disciples,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He asked them, "Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?" They replied, "We have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he asked them, "Into what, then, were you baptized?" They replied, "Into John's baptism."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Paul said, "John indeed baptized with a baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who would come after him—that is, in Christ Jesus."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they heard this, they were baptized, dedicating themselves to the authority and identity of the Lord Jesus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Paul placed his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they began to speak in other languages and to prophesy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total number of men was approximately twelve.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He entered the synagogue and spoke with boldness for three months, engaging in discussion and presenting persuasive arguments about the matters pertaining to the kingdom of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when some became stubborn and refused to believe, speaking against the Way in front of the crowd, he withdrew from them and took the disciples with him. He then engaged in daily discussions in the lecture hall of Tyrannus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This went on for two years, so that all who lived in the province of Asia, both Jews and Greeks, heard the message about the Lord Jesus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And God performed extraordinary miracles through Paul's ministry:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, people carried handkerchiefs or aprons that had touched his body to the sick, and their illnesses were cured, and the evil spirits left them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then some wandering Jewish exorcists took it upon themselves to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, “We command you by Jesus, the one whom Paul proclaims.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were seven sons of a man named Sceva, a Jewish high priest, who also attempted to do the same.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The evil spirit responded, saying, "I know Jesus, and I recognize Paul, but who are you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man who was possessed by the evil spirit jumped on them, overpowered them, and defeated them so completely that they fled from the house naked and injured.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This became known to all the Jews and Greeks living in Ephesus, and a deep sense of awe came over all of them. As a result, the name of the Lord Jesus was greatly honored and exalted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And many who had come to believe arrived, openly acknowledged their actions, and revealed what they had done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Many of those who practiced sorcery and magic arts gathered their books and burned them in the sight of everyone. They calculated the total value of the books and found it amounted to fifty thousand pieces of silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of God continued to increase in power and spread with great strength.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events had concluded, Paul resolved in his spirit to travel through Macedonia and Achaia and then go to Jerusalem, saying, "After I have been there, I must also visit Rome."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he sent two of his assistants, Timothy and Erastus, to Macedonia, while he himself remained in Asia for a time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, there was a significant uproar concerning this movement.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man named Demetrius, a silversmith who crafted silver shrines for the goddess Artemis, provided significant profit for the craftsmen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He gathered together the craftsmen and others who worked in the same trade and said, "Gentlemen, you know that our prosperity comes from this business."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, you see and hear that not only in Ephesus but almost throughout the entire region of Asia, this Paul has convinced and led many people astray, declaring that gods made by human hands are not truly gods at all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, not only is our trade in danger of being discredited, but also the temple of the great goddess Artemis may be regarded as worthless, and her majesty, whom all of Asia and the world worship, may be brought to ruin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they heard these words, they were filled with anger and shouted, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire city was thrown into turmoil. After seizing Gaius and Aristarchus, who were Paul’s traveling companions from Macedonia, the crowd rushed together in unison to the theater.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Paul wanted to go in and address the crowd, the disciples prevented him from doing so.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of the prominent leaders in Asia, who were his friends, sent a message to him, urging him not to risk going into the theater.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some people shouted one thing, while others shouted something else, for the gathering was in complete disorder. Most of those present had no idea why they had even come together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they brought Alexander out from the crowd, with the Jews urging him forward. Alexander motioned with his hand, intending to present his defense to the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when they realized that he was a Jew, they all shouted in unison for about two hours, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After the town clerk had calmed the crowd, he said, "Men of Ephesus, who among you does not know that the city of Ephesus is devoted to the great goddess Artemis and to the sacred image that fell from heaven?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since these matters cannot be disputed, you should remain calm and avoid acting impulsively.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have brought these men here, who are neither temple robbers nor blasphemers of your goddess.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, if Demetrius and the craftsmen who are with him have a complaint against anyone, the courts are available, and there are officials to hear the case. Let them bring charges against one another there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if you have any questions regarding other issues, they will be resolved in a proper and lawful gathering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We are at risk of being held accountable for today’s disturbance, as there is no justifiable reason we can provide to explain this gathering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had finished speaking, he dismissed the gathering.</span></p>






</body></html>