<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Esther Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sw130y.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4045abd7-34af-36b6-28f7-3d39e91fbd0a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Esther Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the third day, Esther dressed in her royal robes and positioned herself in the inner courtyard of the king’s palace, directly facing the king’s residence. The king was seated on his royal throne in the palace, facing the entrance of the hall.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the king saw Queen Esther standing in the court, she found favor in his eyes. The king extended to her the golden scepter he held in his hand. Esther then approached and touched the top of the scepter.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king said to her, "What is your wish, Queen Esther? What is your request? It will be granted to you, even up to half the kingdom."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Esther replied, "If it pleases the king, may the king and Haman join me today for the banquet I have prepared in his honor."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king said, "Hurry and bring Haman, so that he may do as Esther has requested." So the king and Haman went to the banquet that Esther had prepared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to Esther during the wine banquet, "What is your request? It will be granted to you. And what is your wish? Even if it is for half of the kingdom, it will be fulfilled."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Esther replied, saying, "This is my plea and my request:"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If I have gained the king’s favor, and if it pleases the king to grant my request and fulfill my petition, let the king and Haman come to the banquet I will prepare for them. Then tomorrow, I will do as the king has said.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, Haman left feeling joyful and with a cheerful heart. But when he saw Mordecai at the king’s gate, and noticed that Mordecai neither stood up nor showed him any respect, Haman was filled with anger and resentment toward him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Haman restrained himself. When he returned home, he sent for his friends and his wife, Zeresh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Haman recounted to them the splendor of his wealth, the great number of his children, and all the ways in which the king had honored him. He spoke of how the king had elevated him above the other officials and servants of the court.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Haman continued, "Indeed, Queen Esther allowed no one to accompany the king to the banquet she had prepared except me. And tomorrow, I am also invited to join her with the king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet all of this means nothing to me as long as I see Mordecai the Jew sitting at the king’s gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Zeresh, his wife, and all his friends said to him, "Have a gallows built fifty cubits high, and in the morning ask the king to have Mordecai hanged on it. Then you can go joyfully with the king to the banquet." This suggestion pleased Haman, and he ordered the gallows to be prepared.</span></p>






</body></html>