<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 44</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sw1j4e.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d1b6395d-710b-b886-9582-8b0c672a63c6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 44</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Jews living in the land of Egypt—those residing in Migdol, Tahpanhes, Noph, and the region of Pathros. The word of the Lord said to them:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, says: You have witnessed all the disaster I have brought upon Jerusalem and all the cities of Judah. Look now—today they lie in ruins, and no one lives in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the evil they have done, which has provoked me to anger—by burning incense and worshiping other gods, gods they did not know, neither they, nor you, nor your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nevertheless, I sent to you all my servants the prophets, sending them persistently and urgently, saying, "Please, do not commit this detestable act that I utterly despise."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they did not listen or pay attention, refusing to turn away from their evil ways or to stop burning incense to other gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, my wrath and anger were poured out and ignited in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, and they have been left in ruins and desolation, as they remain to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD, the God of armies, the God of Israel, declares: Why are you bringing such great harm upon yourselves by cutting off from Judah—man and woman, child and infant—leaving yourselves without a remnant?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You provoke me to anger by the actions of your hands, burning incense to other gods in the land of Egypt, where you have gone to live. In doing this, you bring about your own destruction and make yourselves a curse and an object of disgrace among all the nations of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Have you forgotten the evil deeds of your ancestors, the sins of the kings of Judah, the wrongdoing of their wives, and your own wickedness, as well as the sins of your wives? These were committed throughout the land of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To this very day, they have not humbled themselves, nor have they shown reverence, nor have they followed my law or the statutes that I set before you and your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: Listen carefully, I will turn my attention against you to bring disaster, and I will completely destroy all of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will take the remaining people of Judah who have resolved to go to the land of Egypt to live there as foreigners, and they will all be destroyed. They will fall in the land of Egypt, consumed by the sword and by famine. From the least to the greatest, they will die by the sword and by famine. They will become an object of horror, a shocking example, a curse, and a disgrace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will bring judgment upon those who live in the land of Egypt, just as I have brought judgment upon Jerusalem—through the sword, through famine, and through plague.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, none of the remnant of Judah who have gone to the land of Egypt to live there will escape or survive, so as to return to the land of Judah, where they long to go back and settle. For none will return except those who manage to escape.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the men who knew that their wives had offered incense to other gods, along with all the women who were present—a great crowd, including all the people living in the land of Egypt, in Pathros—responded to Jeremiah, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the message you have delivered to us in the name of the LORD, we will not listen to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We are determined to carry out every promise we have made to burn incense to the Queen of Heaven and to pour out drink offerings to her, just as we, our ancestors, our kings, and our leaders have done in the past in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem. For back then, we had plenty of food, we were prosperous, and we experienced no harm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since we stopped burning incense to the queen of heaven and pouring out drink offerings to her, we have lacked everything and have been devastated by the sword and by famine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When we burned incense to the Queen of Heaven and poured out drink offerings to her, did we make cakes in her image to honor her and pour out drink offerings to her without the involvement of our husbands?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jeremiah spoke to all the people—to the men, the women, and everyone who had given him that response—saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The incense that you burned in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem—you, your ancestors, your kings, your officials, and the people of the land—did the LORD not take notice of these actions? Did they not come to His attention?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord could no longer endure it because of the wickedness of your actions and the detestable things you have done. As a result, your land has become a desolation, a horror, and a curse, with no one living in it, as it remains to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you have offered incense in worship, sinned against the LORD, and refused to obey His voice, nor followed His instruction, His decrees, or His covenant requirements, this disaster has come upon you, as you see today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeremiah then addressed all the people and all the women, saying, "Listen to the word of the LORD, all you of Judah who are living in the land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, declares: You and your wives have spoken with your own mouths and carried out with your own hands, saying, “We will certainly fulfill the vows we have made—to burn incense to the queen of heaven and to pour out drink offerings to her.” You have indeed carried out your vows and have certainly performed what you promised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen to the word of the LORD, all you people of Judah who live in the land of Egypt. This is what the LORD says: I solemnly swear by my great name that my name will no longer be spoken by any person of Judah throughout the land of Egypt, declaring, “As surely as the Lord GOD lives.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will keep watch over them, but not for their benefit—rather, for their harm. Every man of Judah who is in the land of Egypt will be destroyed by the sword and by famine until not one of them remains.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A small number who escape the sword will return from the land of Egypt to the land of Judah. Then all the remnant of Judah who went to Egypt to live there will come to understand whose words will prevail—mine or theirs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares, "This will be a sign to you: I will bring punishment upon you in this place, so that you may know with certainty that my words will stand firm against you, bringing about the consequences I have declared."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Listen, I am about to hand over Pharaoh Hophra, the king of Egypt, to his enemies and to those who seek to take his life, just as I handed over Zedekiah, the king of Judah, to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon—his enemy who sought his life.</span></p>






</body></html>