<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 51</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sw1yr5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b59a3019-5cca-3c08-4fc7-ab97a082fa0c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 51</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness, you who seek the LORD: consider the rock from which you were cut, and the quarry from which you were dug.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018676"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Turn your attention to Abraham, your ancestor, and to Sarah, who gave birth to you. For I called him when he was alone, blessed him, and made him prosper.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018677"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD will bring comfort to Zion; He will console all her desolate places. He will transform her wilderness into a paradise like Eden, and her barren desert into the lush garden of the LORD. Joy and gladness will be found there, along with thanksgiving and the sound of joyful song.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018678"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to me, my people; pay attention to me, my nation: for instruction will come from me, and I will establish my justice as a guiding light for all people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018679"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My justice is close at hand; my deliverance is already in motion, and my power will bring judgment to the nations. The distant lands will look to me, and they will place their hope in my strength.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018680"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look up to the heavens and gaze upon the earth below: for the heavens will vanish like smoke, and the earth will wear out like a garment, and those who live on it will perish in the same way. But my salvation will endure forever, and my righteousness will never come to an end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018681"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to me, you who understand what is right, you people who have my instruction written on your hearts. Do not fear the insults of others, nor be dismayed by their scorn.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018682"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the moth will devour them as it consumes clothing, and the worm will consume them as it eats away wool. But my righteousness will endure forever, and my salvation will remain from generation to generation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018683"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Arise, arise, clothe yourself with strength, O mighty arm of the LORD! Awaken, as you did in days of old, in generations long past. Was it not you who shattered Rahab and pierced the dragon?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018684"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are you not the one who dried up the sea, the waters of the vast deep, and made the depths of the sea a path for the redeemed to cross safely?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018685"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, those whom the LORD has redeemed will return and journey to Zion with songs of joy. Everlasting gladness will crown their heads; they will be filled with happiness and delight, while sorrow and mourning will vanish completely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, yes I, am the one who comforts you. Who are you that you should fear a mere mortal, destined to die, or a human being who will wither like grass?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have forgotten the LORD, your Maker, who stretched out the heavens and established the earth. Yet you live in constant fear every day because of the rage of the oppressor, as though he were poised to destroy you. But where is the fury of the oppressor now?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The captive in exile hurries to be set free, so that he may not perish in the dungeon or have his food supply cut off.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I am the LORD your God, who split the sea apart, whose waves thundered and roared—the LORD of heavenly armies is his name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have placed my words in your mouth, and I have sheltered you under the protection of my hand, so that I may establish the heavens and set the foundations of the earth, and declare to Zion, “You are my people.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Arise, arise, stand up, O Jerusalem, you who have drunk from the hand of the LORD the cup of His wrath; you have drained to the dregs the goblet of staggering and poured it out completely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There is no one to guide her among all the children she has borne; nor is there anyone to take her by the hand among all the children she has raised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These two calamities have come upon you—who will grieve for you? Ruin and devastation, famine and the sword—how can I comfort you?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your children have grown weak; they collapse at every street corner, like a wild ox trapped in a net. They are overwhelmed by the burning anger of the LORD, the stern rebuke of your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully to this, you who are suffering and overwhelmed, though not from wine:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what your Lord, the LORD, and your God, who defends the cause of his people, declares: See, I have taken from your hand the cup of staggering, the bowl filled with the dregs of my wrath. You will never drink from it again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will place it into the hands of those who oppress you, who have said to you, "Submit, so we may trample over you." And you have laid yourself down like the ground, like a street, for those who walked over you.</span></p>






</body></html>