<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Peter Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sw5584.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e5ca37de-9197-cf5a-6cb0-fd3f7799c5da" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Peter Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the exiles dispersed throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, set apart by the work of the Spirit, for the purpose of obedience and the cleansing power of the blood of Jesus Christ: May grace and peace be abundantly multiplied to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! In His great mercy, He has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To an inheritance that is imperishable, unstained, and unfading, kept secure in heaven for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are protected by the power of God through your faith, leading to the salvation that is prepared to be fully revealed at the final time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You greatly rejoice in this, even though for a little while, if necessary, you may experience grief through various trials.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The testing of your faith, which is far more valuable than perishable gold—even though it is refined by fire—will result in praise, honor, and glory when Jesus Christ is revealed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Though you have not seen him, you love him. Even though you do not see him now, you believe in him and are filled with an indescribable and glorious joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are receiving the ultimate outcome of your faith, which is the salvation of your souls.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning this salvation, the prophets carefully investigated and searched intently, those who foretold of the grace that was destined to come to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were seeking to understand what, or what kind of time, the Spirit of Christ within them was indicating when it foretold the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glory that would follow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves, but you, in communicating these things which have now been proclaimed to you by those who preached the gospel to you through the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. These are matters into which even angels long to look.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, prepare your minds for action, remain clear-headed, and set your hope fully on the grace that will be given to you when Jesus Christ is revealed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As children who obey, do not conform to the desires you once had in your ignorance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But just as the One who called you is holy, you also must be holy in every aspect of your conduct.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For it is written: "You must be holy, because I am holy."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if you appeal to the Father, who judges everyone impartially according to their actions, then live out the time of your temporary stay here with reverence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are aware that you were not redeemed with perishable things, such as silver or gold, from the empty way of life handed down to you from your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a flawless and unblemished lamb.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was indeed chosen and appointed before the creation of the world, but was revealed in these final times for your sake.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Through him, you believe in God, who raised him from the dead and granted him glory, so that your faith and hope might rest in God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since you have purified your souls by obeying the truth through the Spirit, resulting in a sincere love for your fellow believers, make sure to love one another earnestly and with a pure heart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have been born anew, not from perishable seed, but from imperishable, through the living and enduring word of God, which remains forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All humanity is like grass, and all human glory is like the flower of the grass. The grass withers, and its flower falls away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the word of the Lord remains eternal. And this is the message that has been proclaimed to you through the gospel.</span></p>






</body></html>