<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sw5pru.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:49af0bf1-9dec-41c3-1924-e92fdd1c2f15" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the high priest asked, "Is this true?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Men, brothers, and fathers, listen to me: The God of glory appeared to our ancestor Abraham while he was still in Mesopotamia, before he settled in Haran."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to him, "Leave your country and your relatives, and go to the land that I will show you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he left the land of the Chaldeans and settled in Haran. After his father died, God led him to move to this land where you now live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God did not grant him any inheritance in the land, not even a small portion to stand on. Yet He promised that He would give it to him as a permanent possession and to his descendants after him, even though at that time he had no child.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God spoke in this manner: that his descendants would live as foreigners in a land not their own, where they would be enslaved and mistreated for four hundred years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God declared, "I will judge the nation that enslaves them, and afterward, they will come out and worship me in this place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God established the covenant of circumcision with him. As a result, Abraham became the father of Isaac and circumcised him on the eighth day, as the covenant required. Isaac later became the father of Jacob, and Jacob became the father of the twelve patriarchs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The patriarchs, driven by jealousy, sold Joseph into slavery in Egypt; yet God remained with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God rescued him from all his troubles and granted him favor and wisdom in the eyes of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. As a result, Pharaoh appointed him as ruler over Egypt and entrusted him with authority over his entire household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now a severe famine spread throughout all the land of Egypt and Canaan, bringing great hardship. Our ancestors could find no food to sustain themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jacob learned that there was grain in Egypt, he sent our ancestors there first.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the second occasion, Joseph revealed his identity to his brothers, and his family lineage was made known to Pharaoh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph then sent word and summoned his father Jacob and all his relatives to come to him, totaling seventy-five people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jacob journeyed to Egypt, and there he died, as did our ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were taken to Shechem and placed in the tomb that Abraham had purchased for a sum of money from the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But as the time approached for the fulfillment of the promise that God had sworn to Abraham, the people increased in number and multiplied greatly in Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Until a new king came to power who did not acknowledge or recognize Joseph.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This man acted deceitfully toward our people and mistreated our ancestors, forcing them to abandon their newborn children so that they would not survive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, Moses was born, and he was exceptionally beautiful. He was cared for in his father’s house for three months.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he was abandoned, the daughter of Pharaoh found him and took him in, raising him as her own son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses was thoroughly educated in all the knowledge and learning of the Egyptians, and he was powerful both in his speech and in his actions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he reached the age of forty, it stirred within him to go and see how his fellow Israelites were doing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he saw one of his fellow Hebrews being mistreated, he came to his defense and stood up for the oppressed man. In his anger, he struck down the Egyptian.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he assumed that his fellow Israelites would realize that God was going to deliver them through his actions, but they did not grasp this understanding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The following day, he appeared to them again as they were arguing, and he tried to reconcile them, saying, "Gentlemen, you are brothers. Why are you harming each other?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the one who had wronged his neighbor pushed him away, saying, "Who appointed you as a ruler and judge over us?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Are you going to kill me, just as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Upon hearing this, Moses fled and became a foreigner in the land of Midian, where he fathered two sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After forty years had passed, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in the wilderness near Mount Sinai, within the flames of a burning bush.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight. As he approached to take a closer look, the voice of the Lord spoke to him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "I am the God of your ancestors, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob." At this, Moses trembled with fear and did not dare to look.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the Lord said to him, "Take off your sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is sacred ground."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have observed, I have truly witnessed the suffering of my people who are in Egypt, and I have heard their cries of distress. I have come down to rescue them. Now, go, for I am sending you to Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This Moses, whom they rejected, saying, "Who appointed you as a ruler and judge?"—this same man God sent to be both a ruler and a deliverer, through the guidance of the angel who appeared to him in the bush.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027153"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He led them out after demonstrating extraordinary miracles and signs in the land of Egypt, at the Red Sea, and throughout the wilderness for forty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027154"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the same Moses who said to the Israelites, "The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet from among your own people, just like me. You must listen to him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027155"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the one who was among the assembly in the wilderness, accompanied by the angel who spoke to him on Mount Sinai, and with our ancestors. He received the living words of God to deliver to us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027156"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people to whom our ancestors refused to listen, rejecting him and turning away in their hearts, longing to return to Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027157"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to Aaron, "Make us gods who will lead us, because we don’t know what has happened to this Moses, the man who brought us out of the land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027158"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those days, they crafted a calf, presented offerings to the idol, and took delight in what their own hands had made.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027159"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then God turned away and allowed them to worship the heavenly bodies, as it is written in the book of the prophets: "House of Israel, did you bring me slaughtered animals and sacrifices for forty years in the wilderness?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027160"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, you carried the shrine of Moloch and the star of your god Rephan, the idols you made to worship. Because of this, I will exile you beyond Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027161"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our ancestors had the tabernacle of testimony in the wilderness, just as God had commanded when He spoke to Moses, instructing him to construct it according to the pattern he had been shown.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027162"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is also what our ancestors, who came after, brought with Joshua into the land they took possession of from the Gentiles, whom God drove out before the presence of our ancestors. This continued until the time of David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027163"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who gained favor in the sight of God and earnestly sought to establish a dwelling place for the God of Jacob.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027164"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Solomon constructed a house for him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027165"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Most High does not reside in temples built by human hands, as the prophet has said:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027166"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house could you possibly build for me? says the Lord. Where could you find a place for me to rest?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027167"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Has not my hand created all these things?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027168"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are stubborn and unyielding, with hearts and ears that remain closed and unresponsive. You continually oppose the Holy Spirit, just as your ancestors did before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027169"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Which of the prophets did your ancestors not persecute? They even killed those who foretold the coming of the Righteous One, and now you have become His betrayers and murderers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027170"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You received the law through the arrangement of angels, yet you have not obeyed it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027171"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they heard these words, they were deeply pierced in their hearts and ground their teeth at him in anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027172"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he, filled with the Holy Spirit, gazed intently into heaven and saw the glory of God, with Jesus standing at the right hand of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027173"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "Look, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027174"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they shouted at the top of their voices, covered their ears, and all rushed at him together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">58 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They threw him out of the city and stoned him to death. The witnesses who testified against him laid their outer garments at the feet of a young man named Saul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">59 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they were stoning Stephen, he called out to God, saying, "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">60 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He knelt down and cried out in a strong voice, "Lord, do not hold this sin against them." After saying this, he died.</span></p>






</body></html>