<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sw6tf8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8d2d7268-3ef3-ed2e-c0b8-5270faf685d0" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 23</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Disaster will come upon the shepherds who ruin and scatter the sheep of my pasture!" declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares concerning the shepherds who are supposed to care for my people: You have scattered my flock, driven them away, and failed to look after them. Now, I will hold you accountable for the harm caused by your actions, says the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will gather the remaining portion of my flock from all the lands where I have scattered them, and I will bring them back to their pastures. They will thrive and multiply.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will appoint shepherds to care for them, and they will tend to them faithfully. They will no longer live in fear or be terrified, nor will any of them go missing, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, the time is coming, declares the LORD, when I will raise up for David a righteous descendant. A king will arise and rule with success, administering justice and righteousness throughout the land. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In his time, Judah will be delivered, and Israel will live in security. This is the name by which he will be known: "The LORD is Our Righteousness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully, the time is coming, declares the LORD, when people will no longer say, "As surely as the LORD lives, who brought the Israelites out of the land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But as surely as the LORD lives, who brought the descendants of the house of Israel out of the northern land and from all the countries where I had scattered them, they will live in their own land again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My heart is shattered within me because of the prophets; all my bones tremble. I am like a man overcome by drunkenness, like one who has been overpowered by wine—because of the LORD and because of the words of his holiness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land is filled with those who commit adultery; because of widespread oaths and false swearing, the land grieves. The lush pastures of the wilderness have withered, and the people’s actions are corrupt; their power is misused for wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Both the prophet and the priest have become defiled; even in my own house I have found their evil deeds, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, their path will be like slippery ground in the darkness; they will be pushed forward and fall there, for I will bring disaster upon them—the time of their punishment, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have observed the foolishness of the prophets of Samaria; they prophesied by the power of Baal and led my people Israel astray.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have also observed something appalling among the prophets of Jerusalem: they commit adultery and live by lies. They encourage evildoers, so that no one turns back from their wickedness. To me, they are all like Sodom, and its inhabitants like Gomorrah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD of hosts declares concerning the prophets: "Listen, I will give them bitter food to eat and make them drink poisoned water, for from the prophets of Jerusalem ungodliness has spread throughout the entire land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD of Hosts says: Do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you. They are leading you astray with empty promises. What they declare comes from their own imaginations, not from the mouth of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They keep saying to those who reject me, "The LORD has declared, 'You will have peace.'" And to everyone who follows their own stubborn desires, they say, "No harm will come to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who has stood in the presence of the LORD to receive His counsel? Who has truly understood and listened to His word? Who has paid close attention to His message and truly heard it?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, a fierce storm from the LORD is unleashed in anger—a devastating tempest. It will strike down violently upon the heads of the wicked.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The anger of the LORD will not subside until He has carried out and accomplished the purposes of His heart. In the days to come, you will fully understand this.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I did not send these prophets, yet they went out on their own; I did not speak to them, yet they claimed to prophesy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if they had truly stood in my council and had made my people hear my words, they would have turned them away from their wicked ways and from the evil of their actions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Am I a God who is near, declares the LORD, and not also a God who is far away?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is there anyone who can hide in secret places where I cannot see them? declares the LORD. Do I not fill both heaven and earth? declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have heard what the prophets have said—those who prophesy lies in my name, claiming, "I have had a dream, I have had a dream."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How long will these prophets continue to harbor deceit in their hearts as they proclaim lies? Indeed, they are prophets driven by the deception of their own hearts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These people seek to make my people forget my name through the dreams they recount to one another, just as their ancestors forgot my name in favor of Baal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The prophet who has a dream, let him recount the dream; and the one who has my word, let him declare my word with complete faithfulness. How can chaff compare to wheat? says the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is not my word like fire, declares the LORD, and like a hammer that shatters rock into pieces?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully: I am against the prophets, declares the LORD, who steal my words from one another.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I am opposed to the prophets, declares the LORD, who deceitfully claim, "This is what the LORD says," when they are merely speaking their own words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, I am against those who prophesy false dreams, declares the LORD, and who spread them, leading my people astray with their lies and reckless words. I did not send them, nor did I command them to speak. Therefore, they will bring no benefit to this people at all, says the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When this people, or a prophet, or a priest asks you, saying, "What is the message from the LORD?" you shall respond to them, "What message? I will abandon you, declares the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the prophet, the priest, or any of the people who declare, "This is the burden of the LORD," I will punish that individual and their household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You should each say to your neighbor and to your fellow believer, "What has the LORD said in response?" and "What has the LORD declared?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must no longer speak of "the burden of the LORD," for each person's own words will become their burden. You have twisted the words of the living God, the LORD of Hosts, our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You should say to the prophet, "What has the LORD answered you?" and, "What has the LORD said?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since you insist on saying, "This is a message from the LORD," the LORD declares this: Because you keep using this phrase, "The burden of the LORD," even though I have sent word to you, commanding, "You must not say, 'The burden of the LORD,'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, listen carefully: I myself will completely forget you, and I will abandon you, along with the city I gave to you and your ancestors. I will cast you out of my presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring upon you an enduring disgrace and a lasting shame that will never be forgotten.</span></p>






</body></html>