<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sw8qmi.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0a7e0ac5-b1ac-97ce-7955-db50802dfb8e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abimelech, the son of Jerubbaal, went to Shechem to meet with his mother’s relatives. He spoke with them and with all the members of his maternal grandfather’s family, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Please speak into the hearing of all the men of Shechem: Which is better for you—that all seventy of Jerubbaal’s sons rule over you, or that one man rule over you? Also, remember that I am your own flesh and blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the brothers of his mother spoke about him to all the leaders of Shechem, sharing all these words. Their hearts were persuaded to support Abimelech, for they said, "He is our relative."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They gave him seventy pieces of silver from the temple of Baal-berith, which Abimelech used to hire reckless and worthless men who became his followers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He went to his father’s house in Ophrah and killed his brothers, the seventy sons of Jerubbaal, on a single stone. However, Jotham, the youngest son of Jerubbaal, survived because he had hidden himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the men of Shechem and the entire household of Millo assembled and went to the oak tree at the pillar in Shechem, where they proclaimed Abimelech as their king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jotham was told what had happened, he went and stood on the top of Mount Gerizim. He raised his voice and called out to them, saying, "Listen to me, you leaders of Shechem, so that God may listen to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once, the trees set out to appoint a king to rule over them. They said to the olive tree, "Be our king and reign over us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the olive tree replied to them, "Should I give up my rich oil, which is used to honor both God and people, and go to rule over the trees?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the trees said to the fig tree, "Come, you rule over us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the fig tree replied to them, "Should I give up my sweetness and my excellent fruit, and go to rule over the trees?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the trees said to the vine, "Come and rule over us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The vine responded to them, "Should I give up my wine, which brings joy to both God and humanity, just to be elevated above the other trees?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the trees said to the thornbush, "Come and rule over us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The thornbush said to the trees, “If you truly intend to make me your king, then come and take refuge under my protection. But if not, let fire come out from the thornbush and consume the mighty cedars of Lebanon.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, if you have acted with integrity and sincerity in making Abimelech king, and if you have treated Jerubbaal and his family justly, rewarding him according to what his deeds deserved—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For my father fought on your behalf, risking his life to rescue you from the power of Midian.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have risen up against my father’s family today and killed his seventy sons on a single stone. Then you made Abimelech, the son of his servant woman, king over the people of Shechem, simply because he is your relative.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006774"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you have acted with honesty and integrity toward Jerubbaal and his family today, then take joy in Abimelech, and may he also take joy in you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006775"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if this does not happen, may fire come out from Abimelech and consume the people of Shechem and the house of Millo. And may fire also come out from the people of Shechem and the house of Millo to consume Abimelech.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006776"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jotham fled and escaped, going to Beer, where he stayed and lived because he feared his brother Abimelech.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006777"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Abimelech had ruled over Israel for three years,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006778"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then God sent a harmful spirit to create discord between Abimelech and the leaders of Shechem, and as a result, the leaders of Shechem acted deceitfully toward Abimelech.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006779"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This was so that the brutal violence committed against the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might be avenged, and their blood be held accountable against Abimelech, their brother, who killed them, and against the men of Shechem, who supported him in the slaughter of his brothers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006780"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Shechem set ambushers for him on the mountaintops, and they robbed everyone who passed by on that road. This was reported to Abimelech.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006781"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gaal, the son of Ebed, arrived with his brothers and entered Shechem. The people of Shechem placed their trust in him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006782"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They went out into the fields, harvested their vineyards, pressed the grapes, and celebrated. Then they entered the temple of their god, where they ate and drank, and they spoke evil of Abimelech.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006783"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gaal, the son of Ebed, declared, "Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should submit to him? Is he not merely the son of Jerubbaal? And Zebul, his officer? Instead, let us serve the descendants of Hamor, the father of Shechem. Why should we serve Abimelech?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006784"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If only this people were under my authority! Then I would remove Abimelech. And he said to Abimelech, "Strengthen your forces and come out to battle."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006785"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Zebul, the city's governor, heard the words of Gaal, the son of Ebed, he became furious.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006786"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He secretly sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, "Listen, Gaal, the son of Ebed, and his relatives have come to Shechem, and they are now strengthening the city against you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006787"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, rise up tonight, you and the people with you, and set an ambush in the field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the morning, as soon as the sun rises, you must get up early and advance against the city. When the enemy and the people with him come out to confront you, you will have the opportunity to deal with them as the situation demands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abimelech and all the people with him got up during the night and set up an ambush around Shechem, dividing into four groups.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gaal, the son of Ebed, went out and stood at the entrance of the city gate. Meanwhile, Abimelech and the people who were with him rose up from their ambush.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Gaal saw the people approaching, he said to Zebul, "Look, there are people coming down from the tops of the mountains!" But Zebul replied, "What you are seeing is merely the shadows of the mountains, which you are mistaking for men."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gaal spoke again and said, "Look, people are coming down from the center of the land, and another group is approaching by way of the Diviners' Oak."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Zebul said to him, "Where is your boastful talk now, when you said, 'Who is Abimelech that we should serve him?' Isn’t this the very people you looked down on? Go out now, I urge you, and confront them in battle."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gaal went out ahead of the men of Shechem and engaged in battle with Abimelech.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abimelech pursued him, and he fled before Abimelech, and many were struck down and wounded, all the way to the entrance of the gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abimelech stayed in Arumah, and Zebul drove out Gaal and his relatives, preventing them from living in Shechem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, the people went out into the field, and they reported this to Abimelech.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He gathered the people and divided them into three groups. They set an ambush in the field and waited. When he saw that the people had come out of the city, he rose up against them and attacked them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abimelech and the group with him charged ahead and took their position at the entrance of the city gate. Meanwhile, the two other groups spread out and attacked all the people in the fields, killing them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abimelech waged war against the city throughout that entire day. He captured the city, killed the people who were in it, and demolished it. Then he scattered salt over the city as a sign of its destruction and desolation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all the men of the tower of Shechem heard about this, they went into the stronghold of the temple of the god Berith.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abimelech was informed that all the men from the tower of Shechem had assembled together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, accompanied by all the people who were with him. He took an axe in his hand, cut down a branch from the trees, picked it up, and placed it on his shoulder. He then said to the people with him, "What you have seen me do, hurry and do the same as I have done."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people likewise cut down branches, each man his own, and followed Abimelech. They placed the branches against the stronghold and set it on fire, causing the entire structure to burn. As a result, all the men and women of the tower of Shechem perished—about a thousand people in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Abimelech went to Thebez, set up camp around it, and captured the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, there was a fortified tower within the city, and all the men, women, and inhabitants of the city fled there for safety. They secured the entrance behind them and climbed to the top of the tower.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abimelech advanced to the tower, engaged in battle against it, and pressed forward aggressively to the entrance of the tower, intending to set it on fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A woman threw a piece of a millstone down onto Abimelech’s head, crushing his skull completely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he urgently called to his young armor-bearer and said to him, "Draw your sword and kill me, so that people will not say, 'A woman killed him.'" So his armor-bearer thrust him through with the sword, and he died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, each one returned to his own home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, God repaid Abimelech for the evil he had committed against his father by killing his seventy brothers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God brought all the harm that the men of Shechem had done back upon their own heads, and the curse of Jotham, the son of Jerubbaal, came upon them.</span></p>






</body></html>