<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swffv5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:00baf903-70ae-5cc2-9d8f-699c52fa37b6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Go to Pharaoh and tell him, 'This is what the LORD says: Release my people, so that they may worship me.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you refuse to let them go, I will strike all your territory with frogs.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The river will produce an overwhelming number of frogs, which will come up and invade your house, entering your bedrooms and even your beds. They will also infest the homes of your servants and your people, as well as your ovens and the bowls where you knead dough.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The frogs will swarm over you, your people, and all your servants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying, "Tell Aaron to stretch out his hand with his staff over the streams, the rivers, and the ponds, and bring frogs up onto the land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron extended his hand over the waters of Egypt, and frogs emerged, spreading across the entire land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The magicians also performed their secret arts in the same way, and they caused frogs to come up over the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pharaoh summoned Moses and Aaron and said, "Plead with the LORD to remove the frogs from me and my people, and I will let the people go, so they may offer sacrifices to the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to Pharaoh, "You may set the time. When should I plead with God on your behalf, and for your officials and your people, to remove the frogs from you and your houses, so that they remain only in the Nile?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Moses said, "Tomorrow." Then Pharaoh replied, "Let it be as you have said, so that you may know there is no one like the LORD our God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The frogs will leave you, your homes, your servants, and your people; they will remain only in the river.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Aaron left Pharaoh’s presence, and Moses called out to the LORD concerning the frogs that He had brought upon Pharaoh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD acted just as Moses had said: the frogs died off in the houses, in the courtyards, and in the fields.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They piled them up in great mounds, and the land became foul with the stench.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when Pharaoh saw that there was relief, he became stubborn and refused to listen to them, just as the LORD had foretold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD instructed Moses, "Tell Aaron to take his staff and strike the dust of the ground, so that it turns into lice throughout the entire land of Egypt."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They did as instructed: Aaron stretched out his hand with his staff and struck the dust of the ground, and it turned into gnats that infested both people and animals. All the dust across the land of Egypt became gnats, spreading throughout the entire country.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The magicians attempted to produce lice through their secret arts, but they were unable to do so. As a result, lice infested both people and animals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the magicians said to Pharaoh, "This is the work of God's power." But Pharaoh's heart remained stubborn, and he did not listen to them, just as the LORD had foretold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Get up early in the morning and present yourself before Pharaoh. Look, he will be going out to the water. Say to him, 'This is what the LORD says: Let my people go, so that they may worship me.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you refuse to let my people go, I will send swarms of flies upon you, your officials, your people, and into your homes. The houses of the Egyptians will be filled with swarms of flies, and even the ground they walk on will be covered with them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, I will set apart the land of Goshen, where my people live, so that no swarms of flies will be there. This will be done so that you may understand that I, the LORD, am present and active in the midst of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I will establish a distinction between my people and your people. Tomorrow this sign will take place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD did as He said, and a severe swarm of flies invaded Pharaoh’s palace, the homes of his officials, and all the land of Egypt. The land was thrown into chaos because of the overwhelming swarm of flies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pharaoh summoned Moses and Aaron and said, "Go, offer sacrifices to your God, but do so within this land."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses replied, "It is not right to do so, for we would be offering to the LORD our God sacrifices that the Egyptians consider detestable. If we were to sacrifice what they find abhorrent right before their eyes, would they not stone us?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We will travel three days into the wilderness and offer sacrifices to the LORD our God, just as He instructs us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh said, "I will allow you to go, so that you may offer sacrifices to the LORD your God in the wilderness. However, you must not go too far. Now, plead with God on my behalf."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said, "I will leave you now and plead with the LORD so that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, his officials, and his people by tomorrow. However, Pharaoh must not act deceitfully again by refusing to let the people go to offer sacrifices to the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses left Pharaoh's presence and pleaded with the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD acted just as Moses had spoken; He removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, his officials, and all his people. Not a single fly remained.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, Pharaoh once again hardened his heart and refused to let the people go.</span></p>






</body></html>