<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swgeks.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9d952bfa-f054-00b1-1f59-de991039ba0a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Gideon (also called Jerubbaal) and all the people with him rose early and camped beside the spring of Harod. The camp of the Midianites was to the north of them, near the hill of Moreh, in the valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Gideon, "The number of people with you is too great for me to hand the Midianites over to them. Otherwise, Israel might boast against me, claiming, 'My own strength has saved me.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, go and announce this message to the people: "Whoever is fearful and trembling with fear, let them turn back and leave Mount Gilead at once." So twenty-two thousand of the people departed, while ten thousand remained.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Gideon, "The people are still too many. Take them down to the water, and there I will test them for you. It will be that whoever I say to you, 'This one shall go with you,' he shall go with you; and whoever I say to you, 'This one shall not go with you,' he shall not go."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Gideon led the people down to the water, and the LORD said to him, "Separate those who lap the water with their tongues, like a dog laps, from those who kneel down to drink. Set them apart from each other."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006701"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The number of those who lapped the water by bringing their hand to their mouth was three hundred men. However, all the rest of the people knelt down to drink the water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006702"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Gideon, "Through the three hundred men who lapped the water, I will save you and deliver the Midianites into your hands. As for the rest of the people, let each one return to his home."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006703"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the people took provisions in their hands along with their trumpets. Then Gideon sent all the rest of the Israelites back to their tents, keeping only the three hundred men. Meanwhile, the camp of Midian was below them in the valley.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006704"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That very night, the LORD said to him, "Get up, go down to the camp, for I have given it into your hand."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006705"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you are afraid to go down, take your servant Purah with you and go down to the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006706"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will listen to what they say, and afterward, your courage will be strengthened, enabling you to go down to the camp. So he went down with his servant Purah to the edge of the armed men stationed in the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006707"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Midianites, the Amalekites, and all the eastern peoples had spread out in the valley, as numerous as locusts. Their camels were beyond counting, like the grains of sand on the seashore in their vast number.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006708"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Gideon arrived, he saw a man telling his companion about a dream. The man said, "Listen, I had a dream, and in it, a loaf of barley bread came rolling into the camp of Midian. It struck a tent, causing it to collapse and turn upside down, so that the tent lay flat on the ground."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006709"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His companion responded and said, "This can only mean the sword of Gideon, son of Joash, a man of Israel. God has given Midian and its entire army into his hands."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Gideon heard the account of the dream and its interpretation, he bowed in worship. Then he returned to the camp of Israel and declared, "Get up, for the LORD has given the army of Midian into your hands!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He divided the three hundred men into three groups and gave each man a trumpet, an empty jar, and a torch inside the jar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to them, "Watch me and do exactly as I do. When I reach the edge of the camp, do as I do—follow my actions precisely."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I sound the trumpet, I and all those with me, then you must also sound the trumpets on every side of the entire camp and proclaim, "The sword of the LORD and of Gideon!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Gideon, along with the hundred men who were with him, arrived at the edge of the camp at the start of the middle watch, just as the guards had been posted. They blew their trumpets and smashed the clay jars they were carrying in their hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The three groups sounded their trumpets, smashed their jars, and held the torches in their left hands and the trumpets in their right hands, ready to blow. Then they shouted, "A sword for the Lord and for Gideon!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each man held his position around the camp, but the entire army began to run, shouting in panic as they fled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The three hundred men blew their trumpets, and the LORD caused every man in the camp to turn his sword against his companions, throughout the entire army. The army fled as far as Beth-shittah toward Zererah, and as far as the border of Abel-meholah, near Tabbath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Israel assembled from the territories of Naphtali, Asher, and all of Manasseh, and they set out in pursuit of the Midianites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon sent messengers throughout the entire region of Mount Ephraim, proclaiming, "Advance against the Midianites and seize control of the waters ahead of them, all the way to Beth-barah and the Jordan River." In response, all the men of Ephraim assembled and secured the waters as far as Beth-barah and the Jordan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They captured two leaders of the Midianites, Oreb and Zeeb. They killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and Zeeb they killed at the winepress of Zeeb. They pursued the Midianites and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon on the other side of the Jordan.</span></p>






</body></html>