<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Colossians Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swi4fn.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0dd85a22-47de-06be-7f04-7b73272d1a75" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Colossians Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I want you to understand the deep concern and intense struggle I have for you, for those in Laodicea, and for all who have not met me in person.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I pray that their hearts may be encouraged, united together in love, and brought to the full wealth of complete understanding, so that they may truly know the mystery of God—that is, the Father and Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In whom are stored all the riches of wisdom and knowledge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I say this so that no one may deceive you with persuasive but misleading arguments.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Even though I am not physically present with you, I am with you in spirit, rejoicing as I observe your orderly conduct and the firmness of your faith in Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since you have accepted Christ Jesus as your Lord, continue to live your lives in close relationship with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Firmly rooted and built up in him, and strengthened in your faith, just as you were taught, overflowing with gratitude.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful that no one deceives you with empty philosophies and misleading arguments, which are based on human traditions and the basic principles of this world, rather than on Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For in Him resides the complete essence of the divine nature in bodily form.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you are made whole in him, who is the supreme authority over all rulers and powers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In Christ, you have also undergone a spiritual circumcision, one not performed by human hands. This circumcision involves the removal of the sinful nature, accomplished through the work of Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029507"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You were buried with him in baptism, and through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead, you were also raised with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you, who were spiritually dead because of your sins and the unregenerate state of your flesh, God has made alive together with Christ, having forgiven all your transgressions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has canceled the record of the legal demands that stood against us, which were opposed to us. He removed it entirely, nailing it to the cross.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And after disarming the rulers and authorities, He publicly displayed them as defeated, triumphing over them through His victory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let no one pass judgment on you regarding what you eat or drink, or concerning a religious festival, the observance of a new moon, or the Sabbath days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These things are a foreshadowing of what is to come, but the true substance belongs to Christ.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not let anyone deceive you and deprive you of your reward by promoting false humility and the worship of angels. Such people delve into matters they have not seen, being arrogantly inflated by their own fleshly thinking.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they are not holding firmly to the Head, from whom the whole body, supported and held together by its ligaments and sinews, grows with the growth that comes from God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since you have died with Christ and are no longer bound by the basic principles of this world, why do you still live as though you belong to it, submitting to its rules and regulations?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not touch, do not taste, do not handle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All these things are destined to perish as they are used, based on the commands and teachings of human beings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100029518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These practices may appear to be wise because they involve self-imposed worship, false humility, and harsh treatment of the body, but they have no real value in restraining the indulgence of the flesh.</span></p>






</body></html>