<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 35</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swies4.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:56888bf0-0735-637e-ff8f-7d667eb8dc2d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 35</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, Josiah observed a Passover to honor the LORD in Jerusalem. They slaughtered the Passover lamb on the fourteenth day of the first month.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He assigned the priests to their duties and urged them to fulfill their responsibilities in serving the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he instructed the Levites, who were consecrated to the LORD and responsible for teaching all Israel, saying, "Place the sacred ark in the temple that Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel, built. It will no longer be a burden for you to carry on your shoulders. Now devote yourselves to serving the LORD your God and his people Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Organize yourselves according to your ancestral families, following your divisions, as prescribed in the writings of David, king of Israel, and in the writings of his son Solomon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Stand in the sacred area according to the groupings of the ancestral families of your fellow Israelites, the people, and also according to the divisions of the Levitical families.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Prepare the Passover lamb, consecrate yourselves, and make ready your fellow Israelites, so that they may carry out what the LORD commanded through Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Josiah provided the people with lambs and young goats from his own flocks, totaling thirty thousand, as Passover offerings for all who were present. He also supplied three thousand cattle from his own possessions. These were given as offerings for the Passover.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of the people gave generously to the priests, the Levites, and the rest of the community. Hilkiah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, who were overseers of the house of God, provided the priests with two thousand six hundred sheep and goats, as well as three hundred cattle, for the Passover offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Conaniah, along with Shemaiah, Nethaneel, his brothers, Hashabiah, Jeiel, and Jozabad, who were leaders of the Levites, provided the Levites with five thousand sheep and goats and five hundred cattle for the Passover offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So everything was made ready for the service. The priests took their assigned positions, and the Levites were stationed in their divisions, all in accordance with the king’s command.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They slaughtered the Passover lamb, and the priests collected the blood from their hands and sprinkled it, while the Levites skinned the animals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They took away the burnt offerings so that they could distribute them according to the groupings of the families of the people, in order to present them as offerings to the LORD, as it is written in the book of Moses. They did the same with the oxen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They cooked the Passover lamb over the fire, as the law required. However, the other sacred offerings they boiled in pots, kettles, and pans, and distributed them quickly to all the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, they prepared food for themselves and for the priests, since the priests, who were descendants of Aaron, were occupied with offering the burnt offerings and the fat portions until evening. For this reason, the Levites made the preparations for themselves and for the priests, the sons of Aaron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The singers, who were descendants of Asaph, stood in their assigned positions, following the instructions given by David, Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun, the king’s seer. The gatekeepers were stationed at each gate and did not leave their posts, because their fellow Levites had made preparations for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So on that very day, all the work of the LORD was carried out to observe the Passover and to present burnt offerings on the altar of the LORD, in accordance with the command of King Josiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites who were present at that time observed the Passover and celebrated the Feast of Unleavened Bread for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There had never been a Passover celebration like the one observed in Israel since the days of Samuel the prophet. None of the kings of Israel had ever kept such a Passover as Josiah did, along with the priests, the Levites, all of Judah and Israel who were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eighteenth year of King Josiah's reign, this Passover was observed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Josiah had completed the preparations for the temple, Necho, the king of Egypt, marched out to wage war against Carchemish by the Euphrates River. Josiah went out to confront him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he sent messengers to him, saying, "What do I have to do with you, king of Judah? I am not coming against you today, but against the house with which I am at war. God has commanded me to act quickly. Do not interfere with God, who is with me, or He will destroy you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Josiah refused to turn away from him. Instead, he disguised himself to engage in battle against him and did not listen to the words of Necho, which came from the mouth of God. He went out to fight in the valley of Megiddo.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The archers shot at King Josiah, and the king said to his servants, "Take me away, for I am severely wounded."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So his servants removed him from the chariot and placed him in another chariot that belonged to him. They brought him to Jerusalem, where he died and was buried in the tomb of his ancestors. All of Judah and Jerusalem mourned deeply for Josiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeremiah mourned deeply for Josiah, and to this day, all the male and female singers commemorate Josiah in their songs of lament. These laments became a lasting tradition in Israel, and indeed, they are recorded in the Book of Lamentations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Josiah's reign, along with his acts of devotion and faithfulness, are recorded in accordance with what is written in the law of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his actions, both earlier and later, are indeed recorded in the historical records of the kings of Israel and Judah.</span></p>






</body></html>