<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Malachi Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swjfbc.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5f11dba3-4e82-e89c-10d4-c92ec891b325" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Malachi Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I am sending my messenger ahead of me to prepare the way. Then the Lord, whom you are seeking, will suddenly come to his temple—the messenger of the covenant, in whom you take delight. He is indeed coming, declares the LORD of hosts. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But who can endure the day of his arrival? And who will remain standing when he appears? For he will be like a refiner's fire and like launderers' soap.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will act like a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will cleanse the descendants of Levi, refining them as one refines gold and silver. In this way, they will present offerings to the LORD in a manner that is righteous and pleasing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the offerings brought by Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the LORD, just as they were in the past, in the days of old and in former years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will draw near to you for judgment, and I will act as a swift witness against the sorcerers, the adulterers, the perjurers, and those who exploit workers by withholding their wages, who oppress the widow and the fatherless, and who deny justice to the foreigner—all who do not fear me, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I am the LORD, and I do not change; therefore, you descendants of Jacob have not been destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the time of your ancestors, you have turned away from my decrees and have not obeyed them. Come back to me, and I will come back to you, says the LORD of hosts. But you ask, "How should we return?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Does a person dare to steal from God? Yet you have stolen from me. But you ask, "How have we stolen from you?" In your tithes and offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are under a curse because you have robbed me—yes, this entire nation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, so that there may be provision in my house. Test me in this, says the LORD of hosts, and see if I will not open the floodgates of heaven and pour out such a blessing for you that there will not be enough room to contain it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will restrain the destroyer on your behalf, and it will not ruin the produce of your land. Your vines will not drop their fruit prematurely in the field, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All nations will consider you blessed, for you will be a land of great delight, declares the LORD of hosts.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD says, "Your words have been harsh against me." Yet you ask, "What have we said against you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have said, "It is pointless to serve God. What benefit is there in keeping His commands and walking in sorrow before the LORD of hosts?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now we consider the arrogant to be fortunate; indeed, those who do evil prosper; even those who test God escape harm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then those who revered the LORD spoke frequently with one another, and the LORD paid attention and listened. A record of remembrance was written before Him concerning those who revered the LORD and reflected on His name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD of hosts declares, "They will belong to me on the day when I gather my treasured possessions. I will show them compassion, just as a father shows compassion to his son who serves him faithfully."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you will turn back and distinguish between the righteous and the wicked, between the one who serves God and the one who does not serve Him.</span></p>






</body></html>