<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 33</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swjmvs.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d40d1b9a-63e4-ca80-a615-d59aa1dc5f94" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 33</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021282"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, speak to your people and say to them: When I bring a sword against a land, and the people of that land choose a man from among them and appoint him as their watchman—"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If, when he sees the sword coming upon the land, he blows the trumpet and warns the people,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone hears the sound of the trumpet but does not heed the warning, and the sword comes and takes them away, their blood will be on their own head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He heard the blast of the trumpet but paid no attention; his blood will be on his own head. However, whoever heeds the warning will save their life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if the watchman sees the sword approaching and does not sound the trumpet to warn the people, and the sword comes and takes anyone from among them, that person will perish in their own iniquity. However, I will hold the watchman accountable for their blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you, O mortal, I have appointed you as a watchman for the house of Israel. You must listen to the word that comes from my mouth and give them warning from me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I say to the wicked, "O wicked one, you will surely die," and you fail to warn the wicked to turn from their ways, that wicked person will die in their sin, but I will hold you accountable for their blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if you warn the wicked person to turn from their evil ways, and they refuse to turn from them, they will die in their sin; but you will have saved your own life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, O mortal, speak to the house of Israel and say to them: This is what you are saying: "If our transgressions and sins weigh heavily upon us, and we are wasting away because of them, how can we possibly live?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell them this: As surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, I take no pleasure in the death of the wicked. Instead, I desire that the wicked turn from their ways and live. Turn back, turn back from your evil paths! Why should you die, O house of Israel?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, son of man, speak to your people and tell them: The righteous deeds of a righteous person will not save them on the day they sin. Likewise, the wickedness of a wicked person will not cause their downfall on the day they turn away from their wickedness. Nor will the righteous be able to rely on their past righteousness to live when they commit sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I declare to the righteous that they will surely live, but then they rely on their own righteousness and commit sin, none of their righteous deeds will be remembered. Because of the sin they have committed, they will die for it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Again, when I say to the wicked, "You will certainly die," but if they turn away from their sin and do what is just and right—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the wicked person returns what was taken as a pledge, repays what was stolen, follows the life-giving statutes, and refrains from committing evil, they will certainly live and not die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">None of the sins he has committed will be held against him. He has done what is just and right; he will certainly live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet the people of your nation say, "The Lord's way is not fair." But in truth, it is their own ways that are not fair.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When a righteous person turns away from their righteousness and commits wrongdoing, they will die as a result of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if the wicked person turns away from their wickedness and does what is just and right, they will live because of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet you say, "The way of the Lord is not fair." O house of Israel, I will judge each of you according to your own ways.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twelfth year of our exile, on the tenth day of the tenth month, a survivor from Jerusalem came to me and said, "The city has been captured."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the evening, before the survivor arrived, the hand of the LORD came upon me and opened my mouth. This continued until he came to me the next morning. At that time, my mouth was opened, and I was no longer unable to speak.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Son of man, the people living in the desolate places of the land of Israel are saying, 'Abraham was just one man, yet he took possession of the land. But we are many; surely the land has been given to us as our inheritance.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, tell them this is what the Lord GOD says: You eat meat with the blood still in it, you lift your eyes toward your idols, and you shed blood. Do you really think you will possess the land?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You rely on your weapons, you commit detestable acts, and each of you defiles your neighbor’s wife. Do you really think you will inherit the land?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell them this: This is what the Lord GOD says: As surely as I live, those who are in the desolate places will fall by the sword, and I will hand over those in the open fields to be devoured by wild animals. Those who are in the strongholds and caves will die from plague.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I will make the land utterly desolate, and the pride of its power will come to an end. The mountains of Israel will be left barren, so that no one will travel through them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they will understand that I am the LORD, when I have made the land utterly desolate because of all the detestable acts they have committed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, son of man, the people of your nation continue to speak against you near the walls and at the doorways of their houses. They converse with one another, each saying to their fellow, "Please come and listen to the message that comes from the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They come to you as people come, and they sit before you as if they are my people, and they listen to your words, but they do not act on them. Though their mouths speak of great devotion, their hearts are driven by their selfish desires.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Behold, you are to them like a beautiful love song, sung by someone with a charming voice and skilled in playing an instrument. They listen to your words, but they do not act on them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When this event takes place—and indeed, it will happen—they will realize that a prophet has been present among them.</span></p>






</body></html>