<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swk2mw.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:965bc2a3-bcfd-de83-f959-1bf92af11ae8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the leaders of the Levite families approached Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the heads of the families of the tribes of the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They addressed the leaders at Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, "The LORD commanded through Moses to grant us cities to live in, along with their surrounding pasturelands for our livestock."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites, following the command of the LORD, allocated to the Levites from their own inheritance these cities and the surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The allocation of land was determined by lot for the families of the Kohathites. Among them, the descendants of Aaron the priest, who were part of the Levites, received by lot thirteen cities from the territories of the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining descendants of Kohath received ten cities by lot from the families of the tribe of Ephraim, the tribe of Dan, and the half-tribe of Manasseh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Gershon received their assigned portion by lot from the clans of the tribe of Issachar, the tribe of Asher, the tribe of Naphtali, and the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan—thirteen cities in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Merari, grouped according to their families, received twelve cities from the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites allotted these cities, along with their surrounding pasturelands, to the Levites by casting lots, just as the LORD had commanded through Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the territory of the tribe of Judah and the tribe of Simeon, they allocated the following cities, which are listed here by name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Aaron, who belonged to the families of the Kohathites, a branch of the tribe of Levi, were assigned this responsibility, as the first lot fell to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They assigned to them the city of Arba, the father of Anak, which is Hebron, located in the hill country of Judah, along with its surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the fields surrounding the city and its neighboring villages were given to Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, as his permanent inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they assigned to the descendants of Aaron the priest the city of Hebron, along with its surrounding pasturelands, to serve as a city of refuge for those who had committed manslaughter. They also gave them Libnah, together with its surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Jattir with its surrounding pasturelands, and Eshtemoa with its surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Holon with its surrounding pasturelands, and Debir with its surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Ain with its surrounding pasturelands, Juttah with its surrounding pasturelands, and Beth-shemesh with its surrounding pasturelands—nine cities in total from these two tribes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Benjamin, they were given Gibeon along with its surrounding pasturelands, and Geba along with its surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anathoth with its surrounding pasturelands, and Almon with its surrounding pasturelands—four cities in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the towns belonging to the descendants of Aaron, the priests, amounted to thirteen towns, including their surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The families of the descendants of Kohath, who were Levites and part of the remaining Kohathite clans, received their allotted cities from the territory of the tribe of Ephraim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They assigned Shechem, along with its surrounding pasturelands in the hill country of Ephraim, to be a city of refuge for those who had killed someone unintentionally. They also gave Gezer, along with its surrounding pasturelands,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Kibzaim with its surrounding pasturelands, and Beth-horon with its surrounding pasturelands—four cities in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Dan, Eltekeh along with its surrounding pasturelands, and Gibbethon along with its surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aijalon with its surrounding pasturelands, Gath-rimmon with its surrounding pasturelands—four cities in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the half-tribe of Manasseh, they received Tanach with its surrounding pasturelands and Gath-rimmon with its surrounding pasturelands—two cities in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the cities, totaling ten, along with their surrounding pasturelands, were given to the remaining families of the descendants of Kohath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the descendants of Gershon, from the families of the Levites, they allocated Golan in Bashan, along with its surrounding pasturelands, as a city of refuge for those who had committed manslaughter. They also gave Beesh-terah with its surrounding pasturelands. In total, these were two cities, taken from the half-tribe of Manasseh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Issachar, they received Kishon with its surrounding pasturelands and Dabareh with its surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jarmuth with its surrounding pasturelands, En-gannim with its surrounding pasturelands—four cities in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Asher, they received Mishal along with its surrounding pasturelands, and Abdon with its surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Helkath with its surrounding pasturelands, and Rehob with its surrounding pasturelands—four cities in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Naphtali, they designated Kedesh in Galilee, along with its surrounding pasturelands, as a city of refuge for someone who kills another unintentionally. They also set apart Hammoth-dor with its pasturelands and Kartan with its pasturelands. In total, three cities were provided.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the towns assigned to the Gershonite clans, according to their families, totaled thirteen towns, along with their surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the families of the descendants of Merari, the remaining Levites, from the tribe of Zebulun, they gave Jokneam with its surrounding pasturelands and Kartah with its surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Dimnah, along with its surrounding pasturelands, and Nahalal, along with its surrounding pasturelands—four cities in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Reuben, they received Bezer with its surrounding pasturelands, and Jahazah with its surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006419"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Kedemoth with its surrounding pasturelands, and Mephaath with its surrounding pasturelands—four cities in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006420"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the tribe of Gad, they designated Ramoth in Gilead, along with its surrounding pasturelands, as a city of refuge for those who had committed manslaughter. They also set apart Mahanaim, including its pasturelands, for the same purpose.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006421"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Heshbon with its surrounding pasturelands, Jazer with its surrounding pasturelands—four cities in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Thus, all the cities allotted to the descendants of Merari, according to their clans—those remaining from the clans of the Levites—amounted to twelve cities, assigned to them by lot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the cities belonging to the Levites within the territory of the Israelites totaled forty-eight cities, including their surrounding pasturelands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These cities each had their surrounding pasturelands; this was the case for all of these cities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006425"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD granted to Israel all the land that He had solemnly promised to give to their ancestors. They took possession of it and settled there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006426"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD granted them peace on every side, just as He had promised their ancestors. Not a single enemy could stand against them, for the LORD handed all their adversaries over to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006427"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Not a single good thing that the LORD had promised to the house of Israel failed to come about; everything was fulfilled.</span></p>






</body></html>