<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 34</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swm0wk.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0eda2fcf-ed14-0270-cfe5-79ad587113c3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 34</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that came to Jeremiah from the LORD when Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, along with his entire army, all the kingdoms under his rule, and all the peoples under his authority, waged war against Jerusalem and all its surrounding cities. The LORD said:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: Go and speak to Zedekiah, king of Judah, and tell him, 'This is what the LORD says: I am about to hand this city over to the king of Babylon, and he will set it on fire.'</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will not escape from his grasp but will certainly be captured and handed over to him. Your own eyes will look into the eyes of the king of Babylon, and he will speak to you face to face. Then you will be taken to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet listen to the word of the LORD, O Zedekiah, king of Judah. This is what the LORD says concerning you: You will not die by the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you will die in peace, and as they burned incense in honor of your ancestors, the former kings who came before you, so they will burn incense for you. They will mourn for you, saying, "Alas, our lord!" For I have declared this word, says the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the prophet Jeremiah spoke all these words to Zedekiah, the king of Judah, in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the army of the king of Babylon waged war against Jerusalem and against all the remaining cities of Judah—specifically Lachish and Azekah—these fortified cities were among the last strongholds left in Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message that came to Jeremiah from the LORD after King Zedekiah made a covenant with all the people in Jerusalem, declaring freedom for them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every person must release their male and female servants who are of Hebrew descent, whether male or female, setting them free. No one should continue to hold them in service, especially when they are fellow Jews, their own brothers and sisters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all the leaders and all the people who had entered into the covenant heard that each person was to release their male and female servants, setting them free so that no one would continue to use them for service, they complied and released them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, afterward they changed their minds and forced the male and female servants, whom they had set free, to return and subjected them once again to servitude as slaves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the message of the LORD came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: I established a covenant with your ancestors on the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the end of seven years, each of you must release your fellow Hebrew who has been sold to you as a servant. After he has served you for six years, you are to set him free. However, your ancestors did not listen to me or pay attention to my command.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You had indeed turned back and acted rightly in my sight by declaring freedom for each person to their neighbor. You had also made a covenant before me in the house that bears my name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But you turned away and defiled my name by forcing every man’s servant and every man’s handmaid, whom you had set free according to their will, to return and become your servants and handmaids again, bringing them back into subjection.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD says: You have not obeyed me by declaring freedom, each person for their brother and neighbor. Now, listen—I declare a freedom for you, says the LORD: freedom to the sword, to plague, and to famine. And I will cause you to be scattered among all the kingdoms of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will punish those men who have broken my covenant, who have failed to uphold the terms of the agreement they made before me when they cut the calf in two and walked between its pieces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of Judah, the officials of Jerusalem, the court officials, the priests, and all the people of the land who walked between the halves of the calf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will deliver them into the hands of their enemies and into the grasp of those who seek to take their lives. Their corpses will become food for the birds of the sky and the wild animals of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will hand over Zedekiah, the king of Judah, and his officials to their enemies, to those who seek to take their lives, and to the army of the king of Babylon, which has withdrawn from you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, this is what the LORD declares: I will give the command and bring them back to this city. They will wage war against it, capture it, and set it ablaze with fire. Moreover, I will reduce the cities of Judah to a desolate wasteland, leaving them without a single inhabitant.</span></p>






</body></html>