<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 27</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swnba7.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:1b388211-eff0-180b-8bd6-05246e58d9f3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 27</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David thought to himself, "One day Saul will surely kill me. The best thing for me is to escape quickly to the land of the Philistines. Then Saul will give up searching for me in any part of Israel, and I will be able to escape from his grasp."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David got up and crossed over with the six hundred men who were with him to Achish, the son of Maoch, the king of Gath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David stayed in Gath with Achish, along with his men and their families. David himself had his two wives with him: Ahinoam from Jezreel and Abigail, the widow of Nabal from Carmel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul was informed that David had fled to Gath, and from that time on, he stopped pursuing him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007936"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Achish, "If I have found favor in your sight, please grant me a place in one of the towns in the countryside where I may settle. For why should your servant remain in the royal city with you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007937"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, Achish granted Ziklag to him, and for this reason, Ziklag has remained under the authority of the kings of Judah to this very day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007938"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The period during which David lived in the territory of the Philistines amounted to one full year and four months.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007939"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David and his men advanced and launched an attack against the Geshurites, the Gezrites, and the Amalekites. These nations had long been inhabitants of the region, stretching from the area near Shur all the way to the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007940"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David attacked the land, leaving no one alive, neither man nor woman. He seized the sheep, cattle, donkeys, camels, and clothing, and then returned and came back to Achish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007941"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Achish asked, "Where did you raid today?" David replied, "We went against the southern region of Judah, the southern territory of the Jerahmeelites, and the southern area of the Kenites."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007942"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David did not allow any man or woman to survive, so that no one could bring news to Gath. He did this to prevent them from reporting, "This is what David has done," and to ensure that his actions would not become known while he lived in the territory of the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007943"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Achish trusted David, thinking, "He has made himself utterly detestable to his own people, the Israelites; therefore, he will remain my servant forever."</span></p>






</body></html>