<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Lamentations Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swnsw4.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:846d6cf9-2a5f-8f43-40a5-33294f80a436" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Lamentations Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">How the Lord has shrouded the daughter of Zion in a cloud of His wrath! He has cast down from heaven to earth the splendor of Israel and did not spare His footstool in the day of His anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord has utterly destroyed all the dwellings of Jacob, showing no compassion. In His fierce anger, He has demolished the fortified cities of Judah, bringing them down to the ground. He has defiled the kingdom and its rulers, leaving them in disgrace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In his intense anger, he has completely removed the strength of Israel. He has withdrawn his protective power from facing the enemy, and his wrath has burned against Jacob like a raging fire, consuming everything in its path.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has drawn his bow like an enemy; he has taken his stand with his right hand as a foe, and he has killed all who were pleasing to the eye in the tent of Zion’s daughter. He has poured out his wrath like fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord has acted like an enemy: He has utterly consumed Israel, devouring all her palaces. He has demolished her fortresses and multiplied mourning and lamentation among the people of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has forcefully dismantled His sanctuary like a garden hut; He has ruined His meeting places. The LORD has made Zion forget her sacred festivals and Sabbaths, and in His fierce anger, He has rejected both king and priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord has rejected His altar; He has despised His sanctuary. He has handed over the walls of her palaces to the enemy; they have raised a clamor in the house of the Lord, as on the day of a sacred festival.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has determined to demolish the wall of the daughter of Zion. He has measured it with a line and has not held back from bringing destruction. As a result, He has caused both the rampart and the wall to mourn; together they have grown weak and desolate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The city's gates have collapsed into the ground; He has shattered and broken their bars. Her king and her leaders are now among the nations; the law is no longer upheld. Even her prophets no longer receive visions from the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of Zion sit on the ground in silence, mourning deeply. They have thrown dust on their heads as a sign of grief and wrapped themselves in sackcloth, a symbol of sorrow and repentance. The young women of Jerusalem bow their heads low to the ground, overcome with anguish and despair.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My eyes are worn out from weeping, my heart is in anguish, and my innermost being is overwhelmed with grief because of the devastation that has come upon my people. Even the young children and infants faint from hunger in the streets of the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They cry out to their mothers, "Where is the grain and wine?" as they collapse like the mortally wounded in the city streets, their life draining away as they lie in their mothers' arms.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What example can I present to you? What can I compare you to, O daughter of Jerusalem? What can I liken you to, so that I might bring you comfort, O virgin daughter of Zion? For your wound is as vast as the sea—who can heal you?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your prophets have seen false and worthless visions for you; they have not exposed your sin to avert your captivity. Instead, they have presented you with misleading oracles and reasons for exile.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All who pass by clap their hands in scorn at you; they hiss and shake their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem, saying, "Is this the city that was once called the perfection of beauty, the joy of the entire earth?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All your enemies have opened their mouths against you; they hiss and grind their teeth. They say, "We have devoured her! Surely this is the day we have waited for; we have found it, we have seen it!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord has accomplished what He planned; He has carried out His word, just as He decreed long ago. He has torn down without mercy and has allowed your enemies to triumph over you. He has raised up the power of those who oppose you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their hearts cried out to the Lord, saying, "O wall of the daughter of Zion, let your tears flow like a river, day and night. Do not allow yourself any rest; do not let the tears from your eyes stop."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Stand up and cry out in the night; at the start of the night watches, pour out your heart like water before the presence of the Lord. Lift up your hands to Him for the lives of your young children, who are fainting from hunger at every street corner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, O LORD, and take notice of those to whom you have done this. Should women really consume their own offspring, the children they have nurtured? Should infants of such tender age perish? And should priests and prophets be killed within the sanctuary of the Lord?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Both the young and the old lie fallen on the ground in the streets; my young women and my young men have been struck down by the sword. You have slain them in the day of your wrath; you have killed without mercy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have summoned my terrors from every side as if calling for a solemn assembly, so that on the day of the LORD’s wrath, no one escaped or survived. Those whom I nurtured and raised, my enemy has destroyed.</span></p>






</body></html>