<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 52</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swr1ee.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:96ec1171-260e-9363-e1ce-9ea5e4b06451" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 52</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020278"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he ruled for eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah from Libnah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020279"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed actions that were evil in the sight of the LORD, following the same ways as Jehoiakim had done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020280"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the LORD's fierce anger, it happened in Jerusalem and Judah that He ultimately banished them from His presence. This occurred when Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020281"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the ninth year of his reign, on the tenth day of the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, advanced with his entire army against Jerusalem. They surrounded the city, set up camp against it, and constructed siege works all around it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020282"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The city remained under siege until the eleventh year of King Zedekiah's reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020283"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fourth month, on the ninth day of the month, the famine in the city became so severe that there was no bread left for the people of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the city was breached, and all the soldiers fled, escaping from the city by night through the gate located between the two walls near the king’s garden. (The Chaldeans had surrounded the city at that time.) They fled in the direction of the plain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Chaldean army pursued the king and caught up with Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho. His entire army was scattered, leaving him alone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they seized the king and brought him to the king of Babylon at Riblah in the land of Hamath, where the king of Babylon pronounced judgment on him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Babylon executed Zedekiah’s sons right before his eyes. He also put to death all the leaders of Judah in Riblah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, blinded Zedekiah, bound him with bronze chains, and took him to Babylon, where he was kept in prison until the day he died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month, during the nineteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, Nebuzaradan, the commander of the royal guard who served the king of Babylon, arrived in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They set fire to the house of the LORD, the king’s palace, and all the houses of Jerusalem, including the homes of the prominent leaders, and burned them all down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire force of the Chaldeans, who were under the command of the captain of the guard, demolished all the walls surrounding Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, took into exile some of the poorest among the people, along with the remaining inhabitants of the city, those who had defected to the king of Babylon, and the rest of the population.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Nebuzaradan, the commander of the imperial guard, allowed some of the poorest people in the land to remain, assigning them to work as vine growers and farmers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Chaldeans also broke apart the bronze pillars that stood in the house of the LORD, along with the stands and the bronze basin that was in the house of the LORD. They took all the bronze from these items and carried it away to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They also took away the pots, the shovels, the snuffers, the bowls, the ladles, and all the bronze utensils that were used in the service.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The captain of the guard also took away the basins, the firepans, the bowls, the pots, the lampstands, the ladles, and the cups—everything made of gold and everything made of silver. He carried off all these items, separating the gold objects from the silver ones.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The two pillars, the large basin, and the twelve bronze oxen that supported the stands—all of which King Solomon had made for the house of the LORD—were crafted from bronze so immense in quantity that its total weight could not be measured.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding the pillars, the height of one pillar was eighteen cubits, and a measuring line of twelve cubits could encircle it. Its thickness was four fingers, and it was hollow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A capital of bronze was placed on top of it, and the height of each capital was five cubits. The capitals were adorned with latticework and pomegranates all around, all made of bronze. The second pillar was similar, with its pomegranates matching the design of the first.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were ninety-six pomegranates on each side, and all the pomegranates on the latticework totaled one hundred around the entire structure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander of the guard captured Seraiah, the chief priest, Zephaniah, the second-ranking priest, and the three guardians of the threshold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also took from the city a eunuch who was in charge of the soldiers, along with seven men who were close advisors to the king and were found in the city. Additionally, he took the chief scribe of the army, who was responsible for enrolling the people of the land, and sixty men from the general population who were found within the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Nebuzaradan, the commander of the imperial guard, took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Babylon struck them down and executed them in Riblah, in the land of Hamath. In this way, the people of Judah were taken captive and removed from their own land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the account of the people whom Nebuchadnezzar took into exile: in the seventh year of his reign, he carried away captive three thousand and twenty-three Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar's reign, he took 832 people captive from Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twenty-third year of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, took 745 Jewish people into exile. The total number of people taken captive was 4,600.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the thirty-seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin, king of Judah, on the twenty-fifth day of the twelfth month, Evil-merodach, king of Babylon, in the first year of his reign, showed favor to Jehoiachin, king of Judah, and released him from prison.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He spoke to him with kindness and elevated his throne above the thrones of the other kings who were with him in Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He exchanged his prison clothes for new garments, and he regularly dined in the king's presence throughout the rest of his life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And as for his provisions, the king of Babylon provided him with a regular allowance, a daily portion for as long as he lived, until the day of his death.</span></p>






</body></html>