<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sws0ca.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:561289f2-56f4-e175-b472-8433aa031fb6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Athaliah, the mother of Ahaziah, saw that her son had died, she took action and killed all the members of the royal family.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jehosheba, the daughter of King Joram and sister of Ahaziah, took Joash, the son of Ahaziah, and secretly rescued him from among the king’s sons who were being killed. She hid him and his nurse in a bedroom, keeping them out of Athaliah’s sight, so that he was not put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he remained hidden with her in the house of the LORD for six years, while Athaliah ruled over the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the seventh year, Jehoiada sent for the commanders of the hundreds, along with the captains and the royal guard, and brought them to him in the house of the LORD. There, he made a covenant with them and had them swear an oath in the house of the LORD. Then he showed them the king’s son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He gave them these instructions: "This is what you must do: One-third of you who come on duty on the Sabbath shall stand guard at the king’s palace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One-third of the guards shall be stationed at the Gate of Sur, and another third at the gate behind the guardhouse. In this way, you shall maintain the watch over the house, ensuring that it is not breached or destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And two-thirds of all those who go out on the Sabbath shall stand guard over the house of the LORD, surrounding the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to surround the king on all sides, each man with his weapon in hand. Anyone who breaks through the ranks must be put to death. Stay close to the king, accompanying him both when he goes out and when he comes in.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commanders of the military units carried out everything that Jehoiada the priest had instructed. Each commander gathered his men—those who were coming on duty for the Sabbath and those who were going off duty—and brought them to Jehoiada the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest gave King David’s spears and shields, which were kept in the house of the LORD, to the commanders of the hundreds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The guards stood at their posts, each man holding his weapons, surrounding the king on all sides. They were positioned from the right side of the temple to the left side, extending along the altar and the temple itself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he brought out the king’s son, placed the crown on his head, and handed him the covenant scroll. They proclaimed him king, anointed him, and all the people clapped their hands and shouted, “Long live the king!”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Athaliah heard the commotion of the guards and the people, she went to the people in the temple of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When she looked, she saw the king standing by the pillar, as was the custom, with the leaders and the trumpeters beside him, and all the people of the land were filled with joy and sounding the trumpets. Then Athaliah tore her clothes and shouted, "Treason! Treason!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jehoiada the priest instructed the commanders of the hundreds, the officers of the army, and said to them, "Bring her out beyond the ranks, and put to death with the sword anyone who follows her." For the priest had declared, "She must not be executed in the house of the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They seized her and led her away by the path through which the horses entered the king’s palace, and there she was put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoiada established a solemn agreement between the Lord, the king, and the people, binding them to be the Lord’s own people. He also made a covenant between the king and the people, ensuring their mutual commitment to this sacred relationship.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people of the land went into the temple of Baal and tore it down. They completely destroyed his altars and smashed his idols to pieces. They also killed Mattan, the priest of Baal, right in front of the altars. After this, the priest appointed officials to oversee the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He gathered the commanders of the hundreds, the captains, the royal guard, and all the people of the land. They escorted the king from the house of the LORD and proceeded through the gate of the guard to the king’s palace. There, he took his seat on the throne of the kings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people of the land celebrated with great joy, and the city remained peaceful. They executed Athaliah by the sword near the king’s palace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoash was seven years old when he became king.</span></p>






</body></html>