<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swvolw.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:074bf0dc-2fd9-491d-c24c-d6429305069d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And King Jehoshaphat of Judah returned safely to his home in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehu, the son of Hanani the prophet, went to meet him and said to King Jehoshaphat, "Should you assist the wicked and show love to those who hate the LORD? Because of this, the LORD's anger is directed against you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, there are commendable things in you, for you have removed the Asherah poles from the land and have set your heart to seek God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat lived in Jerusalem, and he once again traveled among the people from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim, leading them back to the LORD, the God of their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He appointed judges throughout the entire land, in every fortified city of Judah, establishing them in each individual city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He instructed the judges, saying, "Be careful how you carry out your duties, for you are not judging on behalf of mere humans, but for the LORD, who is present with you in the act of judgment."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let the reverence for the LORD guide you; be attentive and act accordingly, for the LORD our God shows no partiality, accepts no bribes, and does not tolerate wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, in Jerusalem, Jehoshaphat appointed certain Levites, priests, and leaders of the families of Israel to administer the justice of the LORD and to resolve disputes. These officials served in Jerusalem after their return.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he instructed them, saying, "This is how you must act: in reverence for the LORD, with unwavering faithfulness, and with a wholehearted commitment."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whenever any matter comes to you from your fellow Israelites who live in their cities—whether it concerns disputes about bloodshed, or questions about the law, commandments, statutes, or judgments—you must instruct them so that they do not sin against the LORD. If you fail to do this, His anger will come upon you and your fellow Israelites. Be diligent in this, and you will not sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: Amariah, the chief priest, will oversee all matters pertaining to the Lord, and Zebadiah, the son of Ishmael, who governs the house of Judah, will handle all matters concerning the king. Additionally, the Levites will serve as officials to assist you. Act with boldness and determination, and the Lord will stand with those who do what is right.</span></p>






</body></html>