<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 25</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\swx74o.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4e73c0a6-8c69-90e8-57eb-fde78a0bed61" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 25</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the ninth year of his reign, on the tenth day of the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, advanced with his entire army against Jerusalem. They surrounded the city and set up siege works all around it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The city remained under siege until the eleventh year of King Zedekiah's reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the ninth day of the fourth month, the famine grew severe in the city, and there was no food left for the people of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The city was breached, and all the soldiers fled by night through the gate located between the two walls near the king’s garden. (The Chaldeans had surrounded the city on all sides.) The king and his men then took the path leading toward the plain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Babylonian forces pursued the king and caught up with him on the plains of Jericho. His entire army was scattered, leaving him alone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they seized the king and brought him to the king of Babylon at Riblah, where a verdict was pronounced against him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They killed Zedekiah's sons right before his eyes, then blinded him, bound him with bronze shackles, and took him away to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month, during the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon, Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard and a servant of the king of Babylon, arrived in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He set fire to the house of the LORD, the king’s palace, and all the houses of Jerusalem, including every prominent man’s residence, and burned them all down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire force of the Chaldeans, who were under the command of the captain of the guard, demolished the walls surrounding Jerusalem on every side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, the remaining people who were still in the city, along with those who had defected to the king of Babylon, and the rest of the population, were all taken into exile by Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the commander of the guard allowed some of the poorest people of the land to remain, appointing them as vineyard workers and farmers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bronze pillars that stood in the house of the LORD, along with the stands and the bronze sea that was in the house of the LORD, were shattered by the Chaldeans. They took all the bronze from these items and carried it away to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They took away the pots, the shovels, the snuffers, the spoons, and all the bronze utensils used in the service.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The captain of the guard also confiscated the firepans, the bowls, and all the other items made of gold and silver. The gold items were taken as gold, and the silver items as silver.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The two pillars, the large basin, and the stands that Solomon had made for the house of the Lord—the bronze used for all these items was beyond measure, so vast that its weight could not be determined.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The height of one pillar was eighteen cubits, and its capital on top was made of bronze. The height of the capital was three cubits, and it was adorned with latticework and pomegranates all around, all crafted from bronze. The second pillar was identical, with the same latticework and decorations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The commander of the guard captured Seraiah, the chief priest, Zephaniah, the second priest, and the three gatekeepers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the city, he took a commander who was in charge of the soldiers, along with five men who served in the king’s court and were found in the city. He also took the chief secretary of the army, who was responsible for enrolling the people of the land, and sixty men from the common people who were found within the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Babylon struck them down and executed them at Riblah in the land of Hamath. As a result, the people of Judah were taken captive and removed from their land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the people who remained in the land of Judah—those whom Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, had allowed to stay—he appointed Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam and grandson of Shaphan, as their governor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010246"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all the commanders of the armies, along with their troops, heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah as governor, they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah. Among them were Ishmael son of Nethaniah, Johanan son of Kareah, Seraiah son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah son of the Maacathite, along with their men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010247"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gedaliah made a solemn promise to them and their men, saying, "Do not be afraid to serve the Chaldeans. Stay in the land, serve the king of Babylon, and it will go well for you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010248"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, in the seventh month, Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah and grandson of Elishama, who was of royal descent, arrived with ten men. They attacked and killed Gedaliah, along with the Jews and the Chaldeans who were with him at Mizpah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010249"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people, from the least to the greatest, along with the commanders of the armies, got up and went to Egypt because they were afraid of the Chaldeans.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010250"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the thirty-seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin, king of Judah, on the twenty-seventh day of the twelfth month, Evil-merodach, king of Babylon, in the year he became king, showed favor to Jehoiachin, king of Judah, and released him from prison.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010251"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He spoke to him with kindness and granted him a throne higher in rank than those of the other kings who were with him in Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010252"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He exchanged his prison clothes for new garments, and he regularly dined in the king's presence throughout the rest of his life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010253"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king provided him with a regular allowance, a fixed amount for each day, which he received every day for the rest of his life.</span></p>






</body></html>