<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sx20rl.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:102931cc-10fb-df90-189b-602ea34e215f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Solomon, however, loved many foreign women, including the daughter of Pharaoh, as well as women from the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Sidonians, and Hittites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009111"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the nations about which the LORD had warned the Israelites, saying, "You must not associate with them, nor allow them to associate with you, for they will certainly turn your hearts away to follow their gods," Solomon nevertheless became deeply attached to them in love.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009112"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He had seven hundred wives, who were of royal lineage, and three hundred concubines. His wives led his heart astray.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009113"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Solomon grew old, his wives led his heart astray to follow other gods. As a result, his heart was not fully devoted to the LORD his God, unlike the heart of his father David, which had remained loyal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009114"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon pursued the worship of Ashtoreth, the goddess of the Sidonians, and Milcom, the detestable god of the Ammonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009115"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon acted wickedly in the eyes of the LORD and did not wholeheartedly follow the LORD, as his father David had done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009116"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Solomon constructed a high place for Chemosh, the detestable god of Moab, on the hill facing Jerusalem, and for Molech, the detestable god of the Ammonites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009117"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the same manner, he acted for all his foreign wives, who burned incense and offered sacrifices to their own gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009118"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD became angry with Solomon because his heart had turned away from the LORD, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009119"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God had given him clear instructions about this matter, commanding him not to follow after other gods. However, he did not obey what the LORD had commanded.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009120"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD said to Solomon, "Because you have done this and have not kept my covenant and my decrees, which I commanded you, I will certainly tear the kingdom away from you and give it to your servant."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, during your lifetime, I will not carry this out for the sake of David, your father. But I will tear it away from the hand of your son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nevertheless, I will not tear away the entire kingdom; but I will give one tribe to your son for the sake of David, my servant, and for the sake of Jerusalem, which I have chosen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD raised up an adversary against Solomon, Hadad the Edomite, who was of royal descent in Edom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what happened when David was in Edom: Joab, the commander of the army, had gone to bury the dead after he had defeated and killed every male in Edom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For six months, Joab stayed there with all of Israel until he had eliminated every male in Edom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hadad fled to Egypt, accompanied by some of his father's Edomite servants, while he was still a young child.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They set out from Midian and traveled to Paran. From Paran, they took some men with them and continued on to Egypt, where they came before Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. Pharaoh provided him with a house, supplied him with food, and granted him land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hadad gained significant favor in Pharaoh's eyes, to the extent that Pharaoh gave him the sister of his own wife, Tahpenes the queen, as his wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sister of Tahpenes bore him a son named Genubath, whom Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh’s palace. Genubath grew up in Pharaoh’s household, living among the sons of Pharaoh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Hadad, who was in Egypt, heard that David had died and that Joab, the commander of the army, was also dead, he said to Pharaoh, "Please allow me to leave, so I may return to my own country."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Pharaoh said to him, "What have you lacked while staying with me that you now desire to return to your own country?" He replied, "Nothing at all. Nevertheless, please allow me to go."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And God raised up another adversary against him, Rezon the son of Eliadah, who had fled from his master Hadadezer, the king of Zobah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He assembled a group of men and became the leader of a band after David defeated the forces of Zobah. They then went to Damascus, settled there, and established their rule over the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He remained a constant adversary to Israel throughout Solomon’s reign, in addition to the trouble caused by Hadad. He harbored deep hostility toward Israel and ruled over Syria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, an Ephraimite from Zeredah, who was one of Solomon’s officials, rebelled against the king. His mother’s name was Zeruah, and she was a widow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This was the reason he rebelled against the king: Solomon had built the Millo and repaired the broken-down sections of the City of David, his father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jeroboam was a strong and courageous man. When Solomon observed that the young man was diligent and hardworking, he appointed him as overseer of all the labor force from the house of Joseph.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, when Jeroboam was leaving Jerusalem, the prophet Ahijah from Shiloh met him on the road. Ahijah was wearing a new cloak, and the two of them were alone in the open field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahijah took hold of the new cloak he was wearing and tore it into twelve pieces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to Jeroboam, "Take ten pieces for yourself, for this is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: 'Listen, I am about to tear the kingdom away from Solomon's control and give ten tribes to you.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will preserve one tribe for the sake of my servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem, the city I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they have abandoned me and have worshiped Ashtoreth, the goddess of the Sidonians, Chemosh, the god of the Moabites, and Milcom, the god of the Ammonites. They have not followed my ways or done what is right in my sight, nor have they kept my statutes and judgments as David, his father, did.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nevertheless, I will not take the entire kingdom away from him. Instead, I will allow him to remain as ruler throughout his lifetime for the sake of David, my servant, whom I chose because he obeyed my commands and followed my decrees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will take the kingdom out of his son's control and give it to you—ten tribes will be yours.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to his son I will give one tribe, so that David, my servant, may always have a descendant to serve before me in Jerusalem, the city I have chosen as the place where my name will dwell.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will establish you, and you will rule according to all that your heart desires, and you will become king over Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you listen carefully to all that I command you, walk in my ways, and do what is right in my sight, keeping my statutes and commandments as my servant David did, then I will be with you. I will establish for you a lasting dynasty, just as I did for David, and I will give Israel to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this reason, I will bring hardship upon David's descendants, though not forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon therefore sought to put Jeroboam to death. But Jeroboam fled and escaped to Egypt, to Shishak, the king of Egypt, where he remained until Solomon’s death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Solomon, along with everything he accomplished and the wisdom he demonstrated, are they not recorded in the Book of the Chronicles of Solomon?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009151"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon ruled as king in Jerusalem over all of Israel for a period of forty years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009152"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon died and was buried in the city of his father David. His son Rehoboam succeeded him as king.</span></p>






</body></html>