<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Genesis Chapter 31</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sx2b0s.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e7614c03-d106-f97d-bc4e-b9577096436b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Genesis Chapter 31</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob overheard the words of Laban’s sons, who were saying, “Jacob has taken everything that belonged to our father, and from what was our father’s, he has gained all this wealth and honor.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob observed Laban's expression and noticed that it was no longer favorable toward him as it had been in the past.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Jacob, "Go back to the land of your ancestors and to your relatives, and I will be with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob sent for Rachel and Leah to come out to the field where his flocks were.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to them, "I can see from your father's attitude that he no longer regards me as he once did. Yet the God of my father has been with me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are aware that I have served your father with all my strength and ability.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your father has deceived me and changed my wages ten times, but God did not allow him to harm me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If he said, "The speckled ones will be your payment," then all the livestock bore speckled offspring. And if he said, "The streaked ones will be your wages," then all the livestock bore streaked offspring.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, God has taken away your father’s livestock and given them to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the time when the livestock were breeding, I looked up and saw in a dream that the rams mounting the animals were streaked, speckled, and spotted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the angel of God spoke to me in a dream, saying, "Jacob." And I replied, "I am here."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said, "Look up and see that all the male goats mating with the flock are streaked, speckled, and spotted, for I have witnessed everything Laban has done to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am the God of Bethel, where you anointed the pillar and where you made a vow to me. Now, rise up, leave this land, and return to the land of your family.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rachel and Leah responded to him, saying, "Do we still have any share or inheritance in our father's household?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are we not regarded by him as foreigners? For he has sold us, and has completely consumed our wealth as well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the wealth that God has taken from our father belongs to us and to our children. So now, whatever God has instructed you to do, do it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob got up and had his sons and wives mount the camels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000892"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took with him all his livestock and all the possessions he had acquired—the livestock he had obtained while in Paddan-aram—to return to his father Isaac in the land of Canaan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000893"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Laban went to shear his sheep, and Rachel had taken the household idols that belonged to her father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000894"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob left secretly, without informing Laban the Aramean, so that Laban was unaware of his departure.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he fled with all his possessions; he got up, crossed the river, and set his course toward the hill country of Gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the third day, Laban was informed that Jacob had fled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he took his relatives with him and pursued him for seven days, until they caught up with him in the hill country of Gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That night, God appeared to Laban the Aramean in a dream and said to him, "Be careful not to say anything to Jacob, whether good or bad."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Laban caught up with Jacob. Jacob had set up his camp in the hill country, and Laban, along with his relatives, also camped in the hill country of Gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Laban said to Jacob, "What have you done? You have deceived me and taken my daughters away secretly, as if they were captives seized in battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why did you flee in secret and deceive me, leaving without telling me? If you had informed me, I would have sent you away with joy and celebration, with music, tambourines, and harps!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you did not even allow me to kiss my sons and daughters goodbye! What you have done is foolish and unwise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have the ability to harm you, but the God of your father spoke to me last night, saying, "Be careful not to say anything to Jacob, whether good or bad."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, even though you insisted on leaving because you deeply desired to return to your father’s household, why did you steal my gods?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob replied to Laban, "I was afraid, because I thought you might take your daughters away from me by force."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever is found in possession of your gods shall not remain alive. In the presence of our relatives, identify what belongs to you and take it for yourself. For Jacob did not know that Rachel had stolen them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Laban entered Jacob’s tent, then Leah’s tent, and then the tents of the two servant women, but he found nothing. After leaving Leah’s tent, he went into Rachel’s tent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Rachel had taken the household idols and hidden them in the camel's saddlebag, then sat on them. Laban thoroughly searched the entire tent but did not find them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said to her father, "Please do not be angry, my lord, that I cannot stand up before you; for I am in the condition of a woman's monthly cycle." So he searched thoroughly but did not find the household idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob became angry and confronted Laban, saying, "What wrong have I done? What sin have I committed that you have pursued me so fiercely?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since you have thoroughly searched all my belongings, what have you found that belongs to your household? Place it here in front of my relatives and yours, so that they may decide between the two of us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For these twenty years I have been with you; your ewes and female goats have not miscarried, and I have not eaten any of the rams from your flock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I did not bring to you any animal that had been torn by wild beasts; I bore the loss myself. You demanded that I make restitution for anything stolen, whether it was taken during the day or at night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This was my experience: during the day, the scorching heat consumed me, and at night, the biting cold took hold. Sleep fled from my eyes, leaving me restless and weary.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For twenty years I have been in your household. I served you fourteen years for your two daughters, and six years for your flocks. Yet you have changed my wages ten times.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the one whom Isaac revered had not been with me, you would have sent me away empty-handed now. But God has seen my hardship and the toil of my hands, and last night he rebuked you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Laban responded to Jacob, saying, "These daughters are my daughters, and these children are my children. These flocks are my flocks, and everything you see here belongs to me. But now, what can I do for these daughters of mine, or for the children they have borne?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Now then, come, let us establish a binding agreement, you and I, and let it serve as a lasting witness between us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob took a stone and set it upright as a memorial pillar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jacob said to his relatives, "Gather some stones." So they collected stones and piled them into a heap. Then they ate a meal together beside the heap.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Laban named it Jegar-sahadutha, but Jacob called it Galeed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Laban said, "This pile of stones serves as a witness between you and me today." That is why it was named Galeed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Mizpah, for he said, "May the LORD keep watch between you and me when we are apart from one another."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you mistreat my daughters or take other wives in addition to my daughters, even though no one else is present to see it, remember that God is a witness between you and me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Laban said to Jacob, "Look at this mound and see this pillar, which I have set up between you and me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let this pile of stones serve as a witness, and this pillar as a witness, that I will not cross over this pile to harm you, and that you will not cross over this pile and this pillar to harm me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The God of Abraham, the God of Nahor, and the God of their father, judge between us. And Jacob swore by the reverence of his father Isaac.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jacob presented a sacrifice on the mountain and invited his relatives to share a meal. They ate together and spent the night on the mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100000929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Early in the morning, Laban got up, kissed his sons and daughters, and blessed them. Then Laban left and returned to his home.</span></p>






</body></html>