<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Revelation Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sx4jt5.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:bb95b33f-627b-0e8a-c796-90feb5c5dc41" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Revelation Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I heard a mighty voice coming from the temple, saying to the seven angels, "Go forth and pour out the bowls containing God’s wrath upon the earth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The first angel went and poured out his bowl upon the earth, and a foul and painful sore broke out on those who bore the mark of the beast and on those who worshiped its image.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and it turned into blood like that of a corpse, and every living creature in the sea died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the third angel poured out his bowl onto the rivers and springs of water, and they turned into blood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I heard the angel who has authority over the waters declare, "You are just, O Lord, the One who is, who was, and who is to come, because you have executed judgment in this way."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they have spilled the blood of your holy people and prophets, and you have given them blood to drink in return. This is what they deserve.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I heard another voice from the altar say, "Yes, Lord God Almighty, your judgments are true and just."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the fourth angel poured out his bowl upon the sun, and it was granted to him to unleash its heat, causing people to be burned with intense fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">People were severely burned by the intense heat, and they cursed the name of God, who has authority over these plagues. Yet, they refused to repent and give Him the glory He deserves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and its kingdom was plunged into darkness. People gnawed their tongues in agony because of their pain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They cursed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, yet they refused to turn away from their evil deeds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the sixth angel poured out his bowl upon the great river Euphrates, and its waters were dried up, so that the path might be prepared for the kings from the east.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I saw three impure spirits, resembling frogs, emerging from the mouth of the dragon, from the mouth of the beast, and from the mouth of the false prophet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030969"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For they are demonic spirits, performing signs and wonders, who go out to the kings of the earth and to the entire world, to assemble them for the battle on the great day of God, the Almighty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030970"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, I will come unexpectedly, like a thief. Blessed is the one who stays alert and remains prepared, keeping their spiritual integrity intact. Otherwise, they may be caught unprepared and exposed in their shame, revealing their lack of readiness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030971"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he assembled them in a place that is called, in the Hebrew language, Armageddon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030972"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a mighty voice came from the temple in heaven, from the throne, declaring, "It is finished."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030973"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There were loud voices, thunder, and flashes of lightning, followed by a massive earthquake—one so powerful and unprecedented that nothing like it had ever occurred since humanity first existed on the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030974"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The great city was split into three sections, and the cities of the nations collapsed. Then great Babylon was brought to God’s attention, so that He might give her the cup filled with the wine of His intense wrath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030975"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every island vanished, and the mountains could no longer be seen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100030976"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And huge hailstones, each weighing about a talent, fell from the sky upon the people. The people cursed God because of the plague of hail, for it was an extraordinarily severe disaster.</span></p>






</body></html>