<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Daniel Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxas21.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3721c8e8-507a-6940-e5ac-c7237251d3df" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Daniel Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the first year of Darius the Mede, I myself took my stand to support and strengthen him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now I will reveal the truth to you. Listen carefully: Three more kings will rise to power in Persia, and then a fourth will come who will be far wealthier than all of them. Through his wealth and strength, he will incite everyone against the kingdom of Greece.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A powerful king will rise, who will govern with vast authority and act according to his own will.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he rises to power, his kingdom will be shattered and divided toward the four directions of the sky. It will not pass to his descendants, nor will it retain the same authority he once held. His kingdom will be uprooted and given to others, apart from those who were his own.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of the south will become powerful, and one of his leaders will rise to even greater strength, surpassing him in power. This leader will establish his rule, and his authority will extend over a vast and significant dominion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the end of those years, they will form an alliance, for the daughter of the southern king will come to the king of the north to establish an agreement. However, she will not retain her strength or influence, nor will he or his power endure. She will be handed over, along with those who brought her, the one who fathered her, and the one who supported her during that time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the lineage of her roots, a successor will rise to power. He will come with a strong army and invade the fortified strongholds of the king of the north. He will take action against them and achieve victory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will also take captive into Egypt their gods, along with their rulers and their valuable vessels of silver and gold. And he will endure for more years than the king of the north.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of the South will advance and enter his own kingdom, but he will eventually return to his own land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, his sons will rise up and gather a vast army. One of them will surely advance, sweeping through like a flood, and then return. They will be roused to action, even to the point of reaching their stronghold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of the south will become enraged and will march out to wage war against the king of the north. The king of the north will assemble a vast army, but this army will be handed over to the king of the south and fall under his control.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he has removed the multitude, his heart will become arrogant, and he will cause the downfall of tens of thousands. Yet, despite this, he will not gain lasting strength or power from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of the north will return and assemble a force larger than before. After a number of years, he will certainly advance with a massive army and abundant wealth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In those days, many will rise up against the king of the south. Furthermore, the violent ones among your own people will seek to elevate themselves in order to fulfill the vision, but they will ultimately fail.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the king of the north will advance, build siege ramps, and capture the most fortified cities. The forces of the south will not be able to resist, nor will their elite troops, and there will be no strength left to stand against him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the one who opposes him will act according to his own desires, and no one will be able to withstand him. He will establish himself in the glorious land, and it will be utterly devastated by his power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will also direct his efforts to enter with the full force of his entire kingdom, and with allies who are loyal to him. This is what he will do: he will offer him the daughter of women in marriage, seeking to corrupt her. However, she will not remain loyal to him, nor will she support his cause.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022055"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, he will turn his attention to the coastlands and conquer many of them. However, a ruler will arise who will put an end to the disgrace brought by him. This ruler will cause the reproach to fall back upon him, ensuring that the dishonor does not remain on himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022056"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he will direct his attention toward the fortified strongholds of his own land, but he will stumble and fall, and he will not be found.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022057"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a ruler who imposes heavy taxes will arise in his place, bringing glory to the kingdom. Yet within a short time, he will be brought to ruin, though not through anger or in battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022058"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In his place, a despicable person will rise to power, one to whom the honor of the kingdom will not be rightfully given. He will come quietly and seize the kingdom through deceit and flattery.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022059"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And with the force of a raging flood, they will be swept away before him and utterly destroyed; even the leader of the covenant will be broken.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022060"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After forming an alliance with him, he will act deceitfully, for he will rise to power and gain strength with only a small group of people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022061"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will advance peacefully into the richest regions of the province and accomplish what his ancestors and forefathers never achieved. He will distribute among his followers the plunder, spoils, and wealth. Moreover, he will devise plans against fortified strongholds, but only for a limited time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022062"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will muster his strength and courage to confront the king of the south with a vast army. In response, the king of the south will prepare for battle, assembling an exceptionally large and powerful force. Yet he will not prevail, for his adversaries will devise strategies against him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022063"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, those who benefit from his provisions will turn against him, and his army will be overwhelmed; many will fall and be slain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022064"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The hearts of both these kings will be set on doing evil, and they will speak deceitfully to one another while sitting at the same table. Yet their plans will not succeed, for the appointed time of the end will come as determined.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022065"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he will return to his own land with immense wealth, but his heart will be set against the holy covenant. He will carry out his plans and then return to his homeland.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022066"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the designated time, he will return and advance toward the south, but this time it will not be like the first occasion or the last.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022067"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the ships of Kittim will come against him, and he will be deeply troubled. He will turn back in frustration and direct his anger against the holy covenant. He will act on his rage, returning to make alliances with those who have abandoned the holy covenant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022068"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Military forces will rise up to support him, and they will defile the fortified sanctuary. They will abolish the regular offering of sacrifices and set up the abominable idol that causes desolation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022069"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Those who act wickedly by violating the covenant will be led astray through deceitful promises. However, the people who truly know their God will stand firm and take courageous action.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022070"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And those among the people who have insight will instruct many, yet they will fall by the sword, by fire, by captivity, and by plunder for many days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022071"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they stumble, they will receive a small measure of assistance, but many will join them with insincere words and flattery.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022072"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of those who are wise and understanding will face trials and fall, in order to refine, purify, and cleanse them until the time of the end, for it is still to come at the appointed time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022073"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king will act according to his own desires. He will exalt himself and elevate himself above every god, and he will speak astonishing and blasphemous things against the God of gods. He will succeed in his actions until the time of divine wrath is fulfilled, for what has been decreed will surely come to pass.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022074"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will not honor the God of his ancestors, nor will he value the desires of women, nor will he show reverence for any deity. Instead, he will exalt himself above all.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022075"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In his position of power, he will honor the god of fortresses—a god unknown to his ancestors. He will lavish this deity with gold, silver, precious stones, and costly treasures.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022076"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will act in this manner against the most fortified strongholds, aided by a foreign god. He will honor this god and glorify it, granting it great influence. He will empower his followers to rule over many and will distribute the land as a reward for their loyalty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022077"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the time of the end, the king of the south will clash with him, and the king of the north will storm against him like a whirlwind, with chariots, cavalry, and a great fleet. He will invade many lands, sweeping through them and overwhelming them as he advances.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022078"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will also invade the magnificent land, and many nations will fall under his control. However, some will escape from his grasp, including Edom, Moab, and the leading people of Ammon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will also extend his power over the nations, and the land of Egypt will not be spared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, he will gain control over the treasures of gold and silver, as well as all the valuable possessions of Egypt. The Libyans and the Ethiopians will follow in his footsteps, submitting to his authority.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But news from the east and from the north will alarm him, and he will set out in a great rage to bring devastation and complete destruction upon many.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will establish the tents of his royal pavilion between the seas, on the majestic and holy mountain. Yet he will meet his end, and no one will come to his aid.</span></p>






</body></html>