<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Matthew Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxbg56.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:11076c54-4744-161f-5cff-512683f2c2d2" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Matthew Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023284"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful not to perform your acts of charity in front of others, simply to gain their attention. If you do, you will receive no reward from your Father in heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, when you give to the needy, do not announce it with fanfare, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and on the streets, seeking praise from others. Truly I tell you, they have already received their reward in full.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you give to those in need, do it in such a way that even your closest actions remain unnoticed by yourself. Let your giving be done with such humility and sincerity that it becomes a private matter between you and God, without any self-awareness or desire for recognition.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Give your charitable gifts in private, and your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you openly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you pray, do not act like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners so that they may be seen by others. Truly I tell you, they have received their reward in full.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when you pray, go into your private room, and after shutting the door, pray to your Father who is unseen. And your Father, who sees what is done in private, will reward you openly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you pray, do not use meaningless, repetitive phrases as the pagans do, for they believe they will be heard because of their many words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, pray in this way: Our Father in heaven, may your name be honored as holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May your kingdom come. May your will be done on earth, just as it is in heaven.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Provide us today with the sustenance we need for this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And forgive us our wrongdoings, just as we also forgive those who have wronged us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And do not bring us into situations of testing, but rescue us from the evil one. For the kingdom, the power, and the glory belong to you forever. Amen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you forgive others for their wrongdoings, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you do not forgive others their wrongdoings, neither will your Father forgive your wrongdoings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, when you fast, do not act like the hypocrites, who put on a gloomy appearance. They deliberately make their faces look disheveled so that others will notice they are fasting. Truly, I tell you, they have already received their reward in full.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when you fast, put oil on your head and wash your face,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not make it obvious to others that you are fasting, but do so in a way that only your Father, who is unseen, will notice. Your Father, who sees what is done in private, will reward you openly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not store up earthly treasures for yourselves, where moths and decay can destroy, and where thieves can break in and steal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instead, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor decay can destroy, and where thieves cannot break in and steal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For where you store your wealth, there your deepest desires and devotion will also reside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The eye is the source of light for the body. So if your eye is clear and focused, your whole body will be filled with light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if your eye is unhealthy, your entire body will be filled with darkness. So if the light within you is actually darkness, how deep and overwhelming that darkness must be!</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one can serve two masters, for he will either hate one and love the other, or he will be devoted to one and look down on the other. You cannot serve both God and wealth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I tell you, do not worry about your life—what you will eat or drink—or about your body—what you will wear. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Observe the birds of the sky: they do not plant seeds, nor do they harvest crops, nor store food in barns; yet your heavenly Father provides for them. Are you not far more valuable than they?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Which of you, by worrying, can add a single hour to your life?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why are you anxious about clothing? Think about the lilies of the field and how they grow. They do not labor or spin thread, yet they are beautifully adorned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And yet I tell you that even Solomon, in all his splendor, was not adorned as magnificently as one of these.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, if God so adorns the grass of the field, which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, will he not much more clothe you, you who have so little faith?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, do not worry, asking, “What will we eat?” or “What will we drink?” or “What will we wear?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">(For it is the Gentiles who pursue all these things:) Your heavenly Father knows that you need all of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Make it your foremost priority to pursue the kingdom of God and to live in accordance with His righteousness, and all these things you need will be provided for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will bring its own concerns. Each day has enough trouble of its own.</span></p>






</body></html>