<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxbt3l.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:108e1e2e-48d4-64e0-ba65-2b5b12352c80" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Afterward, Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and said to him, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: 'Release my people, so that they may go and celebrate a festival in my honor in the wilderness.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh responded, "Who is this LORD, that I should listen to His command and release Israel? I do not recognize this LORD, nor will I allow Israel to go."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "The God of the Hebrews has confronted us. Please allow us to go on a three-day journey into the wilderness to offer sacrifices to the LORD our God. Otherwise, He may strike us with a plague or with the sword."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Egypt said to them, "Why are you, Moses and Aaron, distracting the people from their work? Go back to your labor!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh said, "Look, the people of the land are now numerous, and you are letting them stop working and rest from their labor."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that same day, Pharaoh gave orders to the taskmasters overseeing the people and to their officers, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will no longer provide the people with straw for making bricks, as you have done before. Instead, they must go and gather straw for themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The quota of bricks that they were required to make before, you shall now impose on them without reducing it in any way. They are lazy, and that is why they are crying out, saying, ‘Let us go and offer sacrifices to our God.’</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Increase the workload for the men, so that they must focus on their labor and not pay attention to empty promises or deceptive words.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The overseers of the people went out, along with their officials, and they addressed the people, saying, "This is what Pharaoh declares: 'I will no longer provide you with straw.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and gather straw for yourselves wherever you can find it, but your required amount of work will not be reduced.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the people were dispersed across the entire land of Egypt to collect stubble for use instead of straw.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The overseers pressed them urgently, saying, "Complete your work—your daily quota—just as you did when straw was provided."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The overseers of the Israelites, whom Pharaoh’s taskmasters had appointed over them, were beaten and questioned, “Why have you not completed your required quota of bricks, both yesterday and today, as you did before?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the overseers of the Israelites came and pleaded with Pharaoh, saying, "Why are you treating your servants this way?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your servants are not being provided with straw, yet they tell us, "Make bricks!" Look, your servants are being beaten, but the fault lies with your own people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he replied, "You are lazy, you are lazy! That is why you say, 'Let us go and offer sacrifices to the LORD.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Go now and get to work. You will not be given any straw, but you must still produce the full quota of bricks."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The overseers of the Israelites realized they were in a dire situation after being told, "You must not reduce the number of bricks required for your daily quota."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Aaron encountered them as they were leaving Pharaoh’s presence, standing in their path.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to them, "May the LORD take notice of you and judge you, for you have made us utterly repulsive in the eyes of Pharaoh and his officials, putting a sword in their hands to kill us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses went back to the LORD and said, "Lord, why have you brought such trouble upon this people? Why did you send me?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since I went to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has only brought more harm to this people, and you have not rescued your people at all.</span></p>






</body></html>