<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxbusq.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:23ea99be-b0e8-b4e3-452a-c99a25c48757" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, Absalom, the son of David, had a beautiful sister named Tamar. Amnon, another son of David, fell in love with her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amnon became so deeply troubled that he grew physically ill because of his sister Tamar, for she was a virgin, and it seemed impossible for him to act on his desire toward her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amnon had a companion named Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, who was David’s brother. Jonadab was an exceedingly shrewd and cunning man.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to him, "Why are you, as the king's son, growing thinner day by day? Won't you tell me what is wrong?" Amnon replied, "I am in love with Tamar, my brother Absalom's sister."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonadab said to him, "Lie down on your bed and pretend to be ill. When your father comes to see you, say to him, 'Please let my sister Tamar come and prepare some food for me. Let her cook it in my presence so I can watch and then eat it from her hand.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Amnon went to bed and pretended to be ill. When the king came to visit him, Amnon said to the king, "Please, let my sister Tamar come and prepare a couple of cakes in front of me, so that I may eat from her hand."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David sent a message to Tamar, saying, "Go now to your brother Amnon's house and prepare a meal for him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008326"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Tamar went to her brother Amnon’s house, where he was lying down. She took flour, kneaded it, and prepared cakes right in front of him, then baked them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008327"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She took a pan and served the food before him, but he refused to eat. Then Amnon said, "Send everyone away from me." So all the men left the room.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008328"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amnon said to Tamar, "Bring the food into the room so I can eat from your hand." Tamar took the cakes she had prepared and brought them into the room to her brother Amnon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008329"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When she brought the food to him and he began to eat, he grabbed her and said, "Come, sleep with me, my sister."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008330"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She replied to him, "No, my brother, do not force me; for such a thing should never be done in Israel. Do not commit this disgraceful act."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008331"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I, where can I take my disgrace? And as for you, you will be regarded as one of the fools in Israel. Now, therefore, I beg you, speak to the king, for he will not refuse to give me to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008332"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, he refused to listen to her pleas. Being stronger than she was, he overpowered her, forced himself upon her, and had sexual relations with her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Amnon felt an intense hatred toward her, so much so that his hatred was even greater than the love he had once felt for her. Amnon said to her, "Get up and leave."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She said to him, "There is no reason for this. The wrong you are doing by sending me away is worse than the harm you have already caused me." But he refused to listen to her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he summoned the servant who attended to him and said, "Remove this woman from my presence at once, and lock the door behind her."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She was wearing a richly ornamented robe, for such garments were reserved for the king’s virgin daughters. Then his servant led her out and locked the door behind her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Tamar took ashes and sprinkled them on her head, tore the richly ornamented robe she was wearing, put her hand on her head, and walked away, weeping aloud.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And her brother Absalom said to her, "Has Amnon your brother been with you? But now, keep quiet, my sister. He is your brother; do not dwell on this matter." So Tamar lived in isolation in her brother Absalom's house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when King David heard about all these events, he became extremely angry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Absalom did not speak to his brother Amnon, whether kindly or harshly, for Absalom harbored hatred toward Amnon because he had violated his sister Tamar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After two full years had passed, Absalom held a sheep-shearing celebration in Baal-hazor, near Ephraim, and he invited all the king’s sons to join him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Absalom approached the king and said, "Please, my lord the king, your servant has sheepshearers working. I humbly ask that the king and his attendants accompany your servant."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to Absalom, "No, my son, we should not all go now, or we might become a burden to you." But Absalom insisted, though the king still refused to go. Instead, he blessed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Absalom said, "If not, I ask you, please let my brother Amnon come with us." The king replied to him, "Why should he go with you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Absalom insisted, urging him until he allowed Amnon and all the king’s sons to go with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Absalom had instructed his servants, saying, "Pay close attention when Amnon's heart is cheerful from wine, and when I say to you, 'Strike Amnon,' then kill him. Do not be afraid, for have I not commanded you? Be strong and act with courage."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Absalom’s servants did to Amnon exactly as Absalom had ordered. At this, all the king’s sons got up, mounted their mules, and fled.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they were on their journey, news reached David with this report: "Absalom has killed all the king's sons, and not one of them remains."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king stood up, tore his clothes, and lay down on the ground. All his servants stood nearby, their own garments torn as well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David’s brother, responded, saying, “Do not let my lord assume that all the king’s sons have been killed. Only Amnon is dead. This has been Absalom’s plan ever since the day Amnon violated his sister Tamar.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, my lord the king, do not let this matter weigh heavily on your heart, as though all your sons have died. Only Amnon is dead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Absalom fled. The young man who was keeping watch raised his eyes and looked, and behold, a large group of people was approaching along the path on the hillside behind him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Jonadab said to the king, "Look, the king’s sons are coming. Just as your servant said, so it has happened."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As soon as he finished speaking, the king’s sons arrived, and they raised their voices and wept. The king and all his servants also wept bitterly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Absalom fled and went to Talmai, the son of Ammihud, who was the king of Geshur. And David grieved for his son every day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Absalom fled and went to Geshur, where he stayed for three years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King David’s heart yearned to reach out to Absalom, for he had found some comfort over Amnon’s death.</span></p>






</body></html>