<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxepqx.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2a5f9fdc-2b8f-be94-ce68-8e5b28aa9161" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 11</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Nahash the Ammonite advanced and laid siege to Jabesh-gilead. All the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, "Form an agreement with us, and we will submit to your rule."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nahash the Ammonite replied to them, "I will make a covenant with you on this one condition: that I gouge out the right eye of every one of you, and so bring disgrace upon all Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of Jabesh replied to him, "Allow us seven days to send messengers throughout all the territories of Israel. If no one comes to rescue us, then we will surrender to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the messengers arrived at Gibeah, Saul’s hometown, and delivered the news to the people. When they heard it, the entire community raised their voices and wept.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007451"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Suddenly, Saul arrived, coming from the field behind the herd of cattle. He asked, “What is troubling the people that they are weeping?” Then they explained to him the news about the men of Jabesh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007452"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Saul heard this news, the Spirit of God came powerfully upon him, and he was filled with intense anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007453"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He took a pair of oxen, cut them into pieces, and sent the pieces throughout all the territories of Israel by messengers, declaring, "Whoever does not join Saul and Samuel in this mission, the same will be done to his oxen." Then the fear of the LORD came upon the people, and they rallied together as one.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007454"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Saul gathered and counted his troops at Bezek, the army of Israel consisted of three hundred thousand men, and the men of Judah numbered thirty thousand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007455"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied to the messengers who had come, saying, "This is what you should tell the people of Jabesh-gilead: 'Tomorrow, by the time the sun is at its hottest, you will receive deliverance.'" The messengers returned and reported this to the people of Jabesh, and they were filled with joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007456"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the men of Jabesh replied, "Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you may do with us whatever you deem right."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007457"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, Saul organized the people into three divisions. They entered the Ammonite camp during the morning watch and attacked the Ammonites, striking them down until the heat of the day. Those who survived were so thoroughly scattered that not even two of them remained together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007458"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people said to Samuel, "Who is the one who said, 'Should Saul reign over us?' Bring those men to us, so that we may execute them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007459"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul declared, "No one shall be executed today, for this day the LORD has brought about deliverance in Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007460"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Samuel said to the people, "Come, let us go to Gilgal and reaffirm the kingship there."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007461"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the people went to Gilgal, and there they established Saul as king before the LORD in Gilgal. They also presented peace offerings to the LORD there. Saul and all the men of Israel celebrated with great joy.</span></p>






</body></html>