<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Luke Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxil83.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f3a9f0e1-622f-c37a-14c5-b4dd774c1f52" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Luke Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jesus also told his disciples a parable: "There was a wealthy man who employed a manager to oversee his estate. But this manager was accused of mismanaging and squandering his master's resources."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he summoned him and said, "What is this I hear about you? Provide a full report of your management, because you can no longer serve as steward."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the manager thought to himself, "What should I do? My master is taking away my position as manager. I am not strong enough to dig, and I am too ashamed to beg."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have decided what I will do, so that when I am removed from my position as steward, they may welcome me into their homes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he summoned each of his master’s debtors and said to the first one, “How much do you owe my master?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "A hundred measures of oil." The manager said to him, "Take your invoice, sit down quickly, and change it to fifty."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to another, "How much do you owe?" The man replied, "A hundred measures of wheat." The master said to him, "Take your bill and change it to eighty."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The master praised the dishonest manager because he had acted shrewdly. For the people of this world are more astute in dealing with their own kind than are the people of the light.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And I tell you this: Use worldly wealth to gain friends for yourselves, so that when it is gone, they may welcome you into eternal dwellings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who is trustworthy in small matters will also be trustworthy in greater ones, and the one who is dishonest in minor things will also be dishonest in significant matters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, if you have not been trustworthy in handling worldly wealth, who will entrust you with the true riches?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And if you have not been trustworthy in handling what belongs to someone else, who will entrust you with what is truly your own?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No one can serve two masters at the same time, for they will either hate one and love the other, or they will be devoted to one and look down on the other. You cannot serve both God and wealth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Pharisees, who were greedy for wealth, heard all these teachings and began to mock him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to them, "You are the ones who make yourselves appear righteous in the eyes of others, but God knows your hearts. For what is highly valued among people is detestable in God's sight."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Law and the Prophets were in effect until the time of John. From then on, the good news of the kingdom of God has been proclaimed, and everyone is eagerly striving to enter it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It is easier for heaven and earth to disappear than for even the smallest detail of the law to lose its force or be set aside.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and whoever marries a woman who has been divorced from her husband also commits adultery.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a wealthy man who dressed in luxurious purple robes and fine linen, enjoying extravagant feasts every day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There was a poor man named Lazarus, who was placed at the gate of a rich man’s house. He was covered with sores and in great distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He longed to eat even the scraps that fell from the rich man’s table. Furthermore, the dogs would come and lick his sores.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It happened that the beggar died and was carried by the angels to Abraham’s side. The rich man also died and was buried.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the realm of the dead, he opened his eyes, suffering in agony, and saw Abraham far away, with Lazarus resting close beside him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he cried out, saying, "Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in agony in this flame."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Abraham replied, "My child, remember that during your lifetime you received your share of good things, while Lazarus received only hardship. Now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, between us and you there is a vast chasm firmly established, so that those who might wish to cross from here to you cannot do so, nor can anyone from there cross over to us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said, "Therefore, I beg you, father, send him to my father’s house."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I have five brothers, so that he may warn them, to prevent them from also coming to this place of suffering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Abraham said to him, "They have the writings of Moses and the prophets; let them listen to them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he replied, "No, father Abraham, but if someone from the dead were to go to them, they would repent."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100025652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He said to him, "If they do not listen to Moses and the prophets, they will not be convinced even if someone were to rise from the dead."</span></p>






</body></html>