<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Amos Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxj613.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c28af0a5-e45a-2676-bb5b-78ea57f55f8e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Amos Chapter 2</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "For the repeated sins of Moab, and for their persistent wrongdoing, I will not withhold judgment. This is because they burned the bones of the king of Edom to ashes, turning them into lime."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will unleash fire upon Moab, and it will consume the palaces of Kerioth. Moab will perish amid chaos, with loud cries and the blaring of trumpets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD declares: "I will remove the ruler from among them and put to death all their leaders along with him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "For the repeated sins of Judah—indeed, for their many offenses—I will not withhold judgment. They have rejected the law of the LORD and refused to obey His commands. Their deceitful ways have led them astray, following the same false paths as their ancestors did before them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will unleash fire upon Judah, and it will consume the grand buildings of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "For the repeated sins of Israel—indeed, for their many offenses—I will not withhold judgment. They have traded the innocent for money and the needy for a pair of sandals.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They greedily desire the dust of the earth that settles on the heads of the poor, and they push the humble out of their rightful path. Even a man and his father go in to the same young woman, defiling my holy name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They recline on garments taken as collateral beside every altar, and they drink wine obtained through fines in the house of their god.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet I utterly destroyed the Amorites before them, though they were as tall as cedars and as strong as oaks. I wiped out their fruit from above and their roots from beneath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I also rescued you from the land of Egypt and guided you for forty years through the wilderness, so that you might take possession of the land of the Amorites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I appointed some of your sons to be prophets and some of your young men to be Nazirites. Is this not true, people of Israel? declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you gave wine to the Nazirites to drink, and you commanded the prophets, saying, "Do not prophesy!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, I am weighed down beneath you, like a cart overloaded with sheaves of grain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, those who are swift will not escape, the strong will not muster their strength, and the mighty will not save themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The archer will not stand his ground, and the swift-footed will not escape; nor will the rider on horseback save himself.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the bravest of warriors will flee away stripped of all their armor on that day, declares the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>