<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxjpjo.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:052408e8-7dd1-a823-eea9-51ddb3f0afa9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the gloom will not be as severe as it was during her time of distress, when at first He brought a light affliction upon the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, and later inflicted a heavier burden on her—by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, in Galilee of the nations. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people who lived in darkness have seen a brilliant light; those who dwell in the land of death's shadow, upon them a light has dawned. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have greatly increased the nation, yet their joy has not grown. They rejoice before you as they do during the harvest, and they celebrate as warriors do when dividing the plunder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you have shattered the yoke that burdened him, the rod that oppressed his shoulder, and the staff of his taskmaster, just as you did in the day of Midian.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every battle fought by warriors is marked by chaotic clamor and bloodstained garments, but this conflict will be characterized by consuming flames and the fuel of fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For to us a child is born, to us a son is given; and the authority to rule will rest on his shoulders. He will be called: Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The growth of his authority and the prosperity it brings will never cease. He will reign on David’s throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with fairness and justice from this time forward and forever. The passionate commitment of the LORD of hosts will accomplish this. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord has spoken a message concerning Jacob, and it has come to rest upon Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017839"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all the people will come to understand—even Ephraim and the residents of Samaria—who speak with arrogance and stubbornness of heart, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017840"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The bricks have crumbled, but we will rebuild with finely cut stone; the sycamore trees have been felled, but we will replace them with majestic cedars.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017841"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD will stir up Rezin's adversaries against him and unite his enemies together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017842"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Syrians advance from the front, and the Philistines press in from behind; they will consume Israel with relentless destruction. Despite all this, God's anger has not subsided, and His hand remains outstretched in judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017843"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people do not turn back to the one who strikes them, nor do they seek the LORD of armies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017844"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD will remove from Israel both the leaders and the common people, the influential and the insignificant, all in a single day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017845"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The respected and esteemed leader is the head, while the prophet who spreads falsehood is the tail.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017846"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The rulers of this people lead them astray, and those who follow them are brought to ruin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017847"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the Lord will take no delight in their young men, nor will He show compassion to their orphans and widows; for everyone is a hypocrite and an evildoer, and every mouth speaks deceit. Despite all this, His anger has not subsided, and His hand remains outstretched in judgment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017848"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wickedness burns like a raging fire; it consumes the briers and thorns and ignites the dense thickets of the forest, causing them to rise in towering columns of smoke.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017849"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because of the fierce anger of the LORD of hosts, the land will be shrouded in darkness, and the people will become like fuel for the fire. No one will show compassion even to their own brother.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017850"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will seize with his right hand, yet still be hungry; he will devour with his left hand, yet not be satisfied. Each one will consume the flesh of their own kin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100017851"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Manasseh and Ephraim, and Ephraim and Manasseh, will unite together, and they will stand against Judah. Yet despite all this, God's anger has not subsided; His hand remains outstretched in judgment.</span></p>






</body></html>