<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxmgtm.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c6e05d0c-ac67-7de3-b32b-afcb7ef8d78d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, the Moabites and the Ammonites, along with some of the people from the region near the Ammonites, joined forces and marched against Jehoshaphat to wage war.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then some messengers came to Jehoshaphat and reported, "A vast army is advancing against you from beyond the sea, from the region of Syria. They are already at Hazazon-tamar, which is En-gedi."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat was filled with fear and resolved to seek the Lord’s guidance. He proclaimed a time of fasting for all of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the people of Judah assembled together to seek the LORD's help. They came from all the cities of Judah to earnestly seek the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat stood before the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem in the house of the LORD, in front of the new courtyard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "O LORD, God of our ancestors, are you not the God who reigns in heaven? Do you not rule over all the kingdoms of the nations? In your hand lies all power and strength, so that no one can oppose you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are you not our God, who drove out the people living in this land before your people Israel, and gave it to the descendants of Abraham, your friend, as a permanent possession?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They settled there and built a sanctuary in that place for your name, declaring,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If disaster comes upon us—whether it be war, divine judgment, plague, or famine—and we stand before this temple and in your presence (for your name dwells in this house), and we cry out to you in our distress, then you will hear us and come to our aid.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, look, the people of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir—whom you did not allow Israel to attack when they came out of the land of Egypt, so they turned away from them and did not destroy them—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011599"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to what I say: see how they repay us—they seek to drive us out of the land you have given us as our inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011600"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O our God, will you not bring judgment upon them? For we have no strength to stand against this vast army that is coming against us, nor do we know what to do. But our eyes are fixed on you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011601"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all the people of Judah stood before the LORD, including their infants, their wives, and their children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011602"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, in the midst of the assembly, the Spirit of the LORD came upon Jahaziel, the son of Zechariah, who was the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah. He was a Levite from the descendants of Asaph.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011603"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Listen, all of Judah, you inhabitants of Jerusalem, and you, King Jehoshaphat. This is what the LORD says to you: Do not be afraid or discouraged because of this vast army, for the battle is not yours, but God’s."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011604"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tomorrow, go down to confront them. They will be coming up by the ascent of Ziz, and you will find them at the end of the valley, just before the wilderness of Jeruel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will not need to fight in this battle. Take your positions, stand firm, and witness the salvation of the LORD, who is with you, O Judah and Jerusalem. Do not be afraid or discouraged. Tomorrow, go out to face them, for the LORD will be with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all the people of Judah and the residents of Jerusalem also fell down before the LORD, worshiping Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites, who were descendants of Kohath and Korah, rose up and lifted their voices loudly to praise the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They got up early in the morning and set out into the wilderness of Tekoa. As they were leaving, Jehoshaphat stood and said, “Listen to me, O Judah and you who live in Jerusalem! Trust in the LORD your God, and you will stand firm; trust in His prophets, and you will succeed.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After consulting with the people, he appointed singers dedicated to the LORD to lead the army, praising the splendor of God’s holiness as they marched ahead. They were to proclaim, "Give thanks to the LORD, for his steadfast love endures forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they began to sing and offer praise, the LORD set ambushes against the armies of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, who had come to attack Judah. These forces were struck down and defeated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Ammon and Moab rose up against the inhabitants of Mount Seir, determined to completely slaughter and annihilate them. After they had finished destroying the people of Seir, they turned on one another, each group aiding in the destruction of the other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Judah approached the watchtower in the wilderness, they looked out and saw a great multitude. To their astonishment, they were all dead bodies lying on the ground, with no one left alive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jehoshaphat and his people arrived to collect the plunder from their enemies, they discovered an immense amount of wealth among the dead bodies, including riches and precious jewels. They took as much as they could for themselves, but there was so much that they could not carry it all. It took them three full days to gather all the spoils because the quantity was so vast.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the fourth day, they gathered in the Valley of Berachah, where they praised the LORD. Because of this, the place was named the Valley of Berachah, and it is still called that to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the men of Judah and Jerusalem, with Jehoshaphat leading them, returned to Jerusalem with great joy, for the LORD had given them cause to celebrate their victory over their enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They arrived in Jerusalem with musical instruments—psalteries, harps, and trumpets—and went to the house of the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A deep reverence for God came upon all the kingdoms of those lands when they heard how the LORD had fought against the enemies of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the kingdom of Jehoshaphat was at peace, for his God granted him tranquility on all sides.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehoshaphat became king over Judah. He was thirty-five years old when he began his reign, and he ruled for twenty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Azubah, the daughter of Shilhi.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He followed the example of his father Asa and did not turn away from it, consistently doing what was right in the eyes of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the high places were not removed, because the people had not yet fully devoted their hearts to the God of their ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Jehoshaphat's reign, from beginning to end, are indeed recorded in the chronicles of Jehu son of Hanani, which are included in the book of the kings of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, formed an alliance with Ahaziah, the king of Israel, who acted in a deeply wicked manner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He formed an alliance with him to build ships capable of sailing to Tarshish. They constructed the ships in Ezion-geber.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Eliezer, the son of Dodavah from Mareshah, prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, "Because you have allied yourself with Ahaziah, the LORD has brought your efforts to ruin." As a result, the ships were destroyed and were unable to sail to Tarshish.</span></p>






</body></html>