<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxozip.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:fad0181b-2bfe-5cba-a645-f2cdd8a679b7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you, son of man, take a sharp knife, a barber’s razor, and use it to shave your head and your beard. Then take a set of scales to weigh the hair and divide it into portions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to burn one-third of it in the fire within the city when the days of the siege are completed. Then you are to take another third and strike it with the sword all around the city. The final third you are to scatter to the wind, and I will pursue them with the sword.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall also take a small number of them and tie them securely in the folds of your garment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then take some of them again and throw them into the fire, burning them completely in the flames. For from this fire, a blaze will spread throughout the entire house of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the Lord GOD says: "This is Jerusalem—I have placed her at the center of the nations, with countries surrounding her on every side."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She has perverted my just decrees into acts of wickedness more than the nations, and my statutes more than the surrounding countries. For they have rejected my just decrees and my statutes; they have not followed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: Because you have become more numerous and prosperous than the nations around you, yet you have not followed my statutes or obeyed my laws, nor have you even acted according to the standards of the nations surrounding you—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the Lord GOD says: "Listen carefully, I myself am against you, and I will carry out judgments within your midst, and all the nations will witness it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring upon you a punishment unlike anything I have done before and unlike anything I will ever do again, all because of your detestable actions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, parents will consume their own children in your midst, and children will consume their parents. I will carry out judgments against you, and I will scatter all who remain of you to every direction of the wind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, as surely as I live, declares the Lord GOD, because you have defiled my sanctuary with all your detestable practices and all your abominations, I will indeed reduce you in number. My eye will not show mercy, nor will I have any pity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A third of your people will perish by plague and be consumed by famine in your midst. Another third will fall by the sword all around you, and I will scatter the remaining third to every direction of the wind. I will pursue them with the sword as they flee.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, my anger will be fully carried out, and I will bring my wrath to rest upon them. I will be satisfied, and they will know that I, the LORD, have spoken in my passionate commitment when I have fully poured out my fury upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, I will reduce you to desolation and make you an object of disgrace among the surrounding nations, in the view of all who pass by.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, it will become a disgrace and a mockery, a lesson and a source of shock to the surrounding nations when I carry out judgments against you in anger, wrath, and fierce rebukes. I, the LORD, have declared it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I unleash upon them the devastating arrows of famine, which will bring about their ruin—arrows I will send to destroy you—I will intensify the famine against you and shatter your supply of bread.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will send famine and dangerous wild animals against you, and they will leave you childless. Plague and bloodshed will sweep through your land, and I will bring the sword upon you. I, the LORD, have declared it.</span></p>






</body></html>