<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Genesis Chapter 43</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxpj7c.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:20c91d0f-d9e9-786d-16c9-4cde1d0ccd0e" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Genesis Chapter 43</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The famine was severe throughout the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they had finished eating the grain they had brought from Egypt, their father said to them, "Go back and buy us a little more food."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah spoke to him, saying, "The man firmly warned us, declaring, 'You will not see my face again unless your brother is with you.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you allow our brother to go with us, we will travel down and purchase food for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you refuse to send him with us, we will not go down there, for the man clearly told us, ‘You will not be allowed to see me again unless your brother is with you.’</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Israel said, "Why have you brought such trouble upon me by telling the man that you had another brother?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied, "The man questioned us closely about our circumstances and our family, asking, 'Is your father still alive? Do you have another brother?' We answered him truthfully, just as we have told you. How could we have known that he would say, 'Bring your brother down here'?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Judah said to his father Israel, "Let the boy go with me, and we will set out and travel. This way, we may survive and not perish—both we, you, and our little ones."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will take full responsibility for him; you can hold me accountable for his safety. If I fail to bring him back to you and present him before you, then I will bear the guilt forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If we had not delayed, we would certainly have returned by now for the second time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And their father Israel said to them, "If it must be this way, then do as I say: take some of the finest produce of the land in your bags, and bring a gift to the man—a little balm, a little honey, aromatic spices, myrrh, pistachios, and almonds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take twice the amount of money with you, and also bring back the money that was returned in the top of your sacks. Carry it with you again; perhaps it was a mistake.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take your brother with you, and set out to return to the man.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May God Almighty grant you favor in the man’s sight, so that he will release your other brother and Benjamin to you. If I must lose my children, then I must lose them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men took the gifts, along with double the amount of money in their possession, and Benjamin. They set out, journeyed down to Egypt, and presented themselves before Joseph.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Joseph saw Benjamin among them, he said to the steward of his house, "Take these men to my home, prepare a meal, and make everything ready, for these men will eat with me at noon."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man did exactly as Joseph instructed and brought the men into Joseph’s house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men were filled with fear when they were brought into Joseph’s house. They said to one another, “We are being brought here because of the money that was returned in our sacks the first time. He is looking for a reason to accuse us, to seize us, and to take us as slaves, along with our donkeys.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They approached the manager of Joseph’s household and spoke with him at the entrance of the house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they said, "Please, my lord, we came down the first time to buy grain."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When we arrived at the lodging place, we opened our sacks, and to our surprise, each man’s money was there in the top of his sack—the full amount we had paid. So we have brought it back with us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have also brought additional money with us to purchase food. We do not know who placed our original money back into our sacks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Peace be with you; do not be afraid. Your God, and the God of your father, has placed treasure in your sacks. I received your payment." Then he brought Simeon out to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man led the men into Joseph’s house and provided them with water to wash their feet. He also gave fodder to their donkeys.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They prepared the gift for when Joseph arrived at noon, having heard that they were to dine there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Joseph arrived at his house, they presented him with the gift they had brought and bowed down to the ground before him in reverence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He inquired about their well-being and asked, "How is your father, the elderly man you mentioned? Is he still alive?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001319"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied, "Your servant, our father, is well; he is still alive." Then they bowed their heads and showed him respect.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001320"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He looked up and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother’s son, and asked, “Is this your youngest brother, the one you told me about?” Then he said, “May God show you kindness, my son.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001321"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph was deeply moved, for his heart was overwhelmed with emotion for his brother. He hurriedly looked for a place to weep in private. He went into his room and wept there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001322"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He washed his face, then went out and composed himself. Afterward, he said, "Serve the meal."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001323"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They arranged seating separately for Joseph by himself, for his brothers by themselves, and for the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves, because the Egyptians could not eat with the Hebrews. For the Egyptians, sharing a meal with Hebrews was considered detestable.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001324"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They seated themselves before him, the firstborn in the order of his birthright and the youngest according to his age. The men looked at one another in astonishment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001325"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he took portions of food from his own table and sent them to his brothers, but Benjamin’s portion was five times larger than any of theirs. They ate and drank together, rejoicing in his presence.</span></p>






</body></html>