<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxqcsn.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:5f8a2ebe-790e-9f41-4731-cb715eacab0c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 6</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007333"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ark of the LORD remained in the territory of the Philistines for seven months.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007334"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines summoned their priests and diviners, asking, "What should we do with the ark of the LORD? Tell us how we should send it back to its rightful place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007335"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "If you send back the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it away empty. Instead, be sure to return it with a guilt offering. Then you will be healed, and it will become clear to you why His hand has not been lifted from you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007336"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they asked, "What kind of guilt offering should we send back to him?" They replied, "Five gold tumors and five gold mice, corresponding to the number of the Philistine rulers, because the same plague has struck all of you and your rulers."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007337"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must make likenesses of your tumors and likenesses of the mice that are ravaging the land, and you must give honor to the God of Israel. Perhaps then He will lessen the severity of His judgment against you, your gods, and your land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007338"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why then do you stubbornly refuse to change your hearts, just as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? When God performed extraordinary acts among them, did they not eventually let the people go, allowing them to leave?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007339"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, prepare a new cart and take two milk cows that have never been yoked. Fasten the cows to the cart, but take their calves back home, away from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007340"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take the ark of the LORD and place it on the cart. Then put the gold items, which you are returning to Him as a guilt offering, in a box beside it. After that, send it on its way so it may go.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007341"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, observe: if the cart goes up by the way of its own territory toward Beth-shemesh, then it is clear that he has brought this great disaster upon us. But if it does not, then we will know that it was not his hand that struck us—it was merely an accidental event that happened to us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007342"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men did as instructed: they took two milk cows, tied them to the cart, and kept their calves confined at home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007343"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They placed the ark of the LORD on the cart, along with the chest containing the gold mice and the models of their tumors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007344"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cows went straight along the road toward Beth-shemesh, staying on the path and moaning as they went. They did not turn aside to the right or to the left. The rulers of the Philistines followed them as far as the border of Beth-shemesh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007345"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Beth-shemesh were harvesting their wheat in the valley. When they looked up and saw the ark, they were filled with joy at the sight of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007346"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cart entered the field of Joshua, a man from Beth-shemesh, and came to a stop near a large stone. They then cut up the wood of the cart and offered the cows as a burnt offering to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007347"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Levites carefully removed the ark of the LORD and the chest that accompanied it, which contained the golden objects, and placed them on the large stone. On that same day, the people of Beth-shemesh presented burnt offerings and made sacrifices to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the five rulers of the Philistines saw what had happened, they went back to Ekron that very same day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the golden tumors that the Philistines sent back as a guilt offering to the LORD: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, and one for Ekron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the golden mice corresponded to the number of all the cities of the Philistines ruled by the five lords, including both fortified cities and rural villages. They were brought as far as the large stone of Abel, where they placed the ark of the LORD. That stone remains to this day in the field of Joshua, the Beth-shemite.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the Lord struck down the men of Beth-shemesh because they had looked into the ark of the Lord. He struck down seventy men, and the people mourned deeply because the Lord had inflicted such a severe blow upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Beth-shemesh said, "Who can stand in the presence of the LORD, this holy God? And where can He go from here, away from us?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sent messengers to the people of Kirjath-jearim with this message: "The Philistines have returned the ark of the LORD. Come down and take it back to your town."</span></p>






</body></html>