<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxxh5x.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:edf9188a-b16d-b8ac-0130-14a17c3264a9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011348"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After twenty years had passed, during which Solomon had completed the construction of the house of the LORD and his own royal palace,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011349"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cities that Huram had returned to Solomon, Solomon rebuilt them and settled the people of Israel in them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011350"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon advanced to Hamath-zobah and successfully conquered it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011351"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed Tadmor in the wilderness and all the storage cities that he built in the region of Hamath.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011352"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also constructed Upper Beth-horon and Lower Beth-horon as fortified cities, complete with walls, gates, and bars for security.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011353"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Baalath, along with all the storage cities that Solomon had built, and the cities for his chariots, and the cities for his cavalry, and everything Solomon desired to construct in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and throughout the entire territory under his rule.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011354"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning all the people who remained from the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites—those who were not part of Israel—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011355"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, concerning the descendants of the peoples who remained in the land after them—those whom the Israelites had not completely driven out—Solomon subjected them to forced labor, and they continued to pay tribute up to the present day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011356"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Solomon did not conscript any of the Israelites as forced laborers for his projects. Instead, they served as soldiers, commanders of his officers, and leaders of his chariot and cavalry forces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011357"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These were the leading officials of King Solomon, numbering two hundred and fifty, who exercised authority over the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011358"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Solomon moved Pharaoh’s daughter from the City of David to the house he had built for her, for he said, “My wife must not live in the house of David, king of Israel, because the places where the ark of the LORD has come are holy.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011359"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Solomon presented burnt offerings to the LORD on the altar of the LORD, which he had constructed in front of the temple porch.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011360"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They were to provide a daily offering according to the command of Moses, on the Sabbaths, the new moons, and the appointed festivals—three times each year: during the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Feast of Weeks, and the Feast of Tabernacles.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011361"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He established the divisions of the priests for their duties, following the arrangement set by his father David. He also assigned the Levites to their responsibilities—to lead in praise and to assist the priests in their daily tasks as required. Additionally, he organized the gatekeepers by their divisions at each gate, in accordance with the command of David, the man of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011362"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They did not deviate from the king’s command regarding the priests and Levites, whether it concerned any specific matter or the handling of the treasures.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011363"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of Solomon's work was carefully prepared from the day the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid until its completion. Thus, the house of the LORD was brought to its full and perfect state.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011364"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Solomon traveled to Ezion-geber and to Eloth, which are located by the seashore in the land of Edom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011365"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Huram sent ships and skilled sailors to Solomon by means of his own servants. These men, experienced in seafaring, accompanied Solomon’s servants to Ophir. There, they acquired four hundred and fifty talents of gold and brought it back to King Solomon.</span></p>






</body></html>