<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Genesis Chapter 50</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxxtn9.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:47768e61-1447-6bb3-f5b9-305ca42c6d1f" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Genesis Chapter 50</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001508"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph leaned over his father’s face, wept over him, and kissed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001509"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph instructed his servants, who were skilled in the art of embalming, to prepare his father’s body for burial. The embalmers carried out the task, preserving the body of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001510"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After forty days had passed—the customary period for embalming—the Egyptians mourned for him for seventy days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001511"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After the period of mourning had ended, Joseph addressed Pharaoh’s household, saying, “If I have found favor in your sight, please convey this message to Pharaoh:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001512"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">My father made me take an oath, saying, "I am about to die. In the grave I have prepared for myself in the land of Canaan, you must bury me." So now, please allow me to go and bury my father, and then I will return.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001513"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Pharaoh said, "Go and bury your father, as he made you swear to do."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001514"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph went to bury his father, accompanied by all of Pharaoh’s officials, the elders of Pharaoh’s household, and all the elders of the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001515"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The entire household of Joseph, along with his brothers and his father’s family, went with him. Only their young children, their flocks, and their herds remained behind in the land of Goshen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001516"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A large procession accompanied him, including both chariots and horsemen, making it an exceedingly great assembly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001517"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They arrived at the threshing floor of Atad, which is located beyond the Jordan River. There, they held a solemn and deeply sorrowful mourning ceremony. Joseph observed a period of mourning for his father that lasted seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001518"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people of the land, the Canaanites, witnessed the mourning at the threshing floor of Atad, they said, "This is a profound and solemn mourning for the Egyptians." Because of this, the place was named Abel-mizraim, which is located beyond the Jordan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001519"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his sons carried out for him exactly as he had instructed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001520"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His sons carried him to the land of Canaan and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham had purchased along with the field as a burial site from Ephron the Hittite. This was located near Mamre.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001521"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph returned to Egypt, along with his brothers and all those who had accompanied him to bury his father, after they had completed the burial.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001522"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Joseph’s brothers realized that their father had died, they said, “What if Joseph holds a grudge against us and repays us in full for all the harm we did to him?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001523"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sent a message to Joseph, saying, "Before your father died, he gave this command:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001524"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You should say to Joseph, "Please, we beg you, forgive the wrongdoing of your brothers and their sin, for they treated you cruelly. Now, we plead with you, forgive the offense of the servants of the God of your father." When they spoke these words to him, Joseph wept.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001525"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His brothers also came and bowed down before him, saying, "We are your servants."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001526"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph said to them, "Do not be afraid. Am I in the position of God?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001527"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You intended to harm me, but God intended it for good, to accomplish what is now being done—the saving of many lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001528"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not be afraid now; I will provide for you and your children. He reassured them and spoke to them with kindness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001529"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph remained in Egypt, along with his father’s household, and he lived to be one hundred and ten years old.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001530"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph lived to see the descendants of Ephraim to the third generation. Moreover, the children of Machir, the son of Manasseh, were also born and raised under Joseph’s care and protection.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001531"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph said to his brothers, "I am about to die, but God will certainly come to your aid and bring you out of this land to the land he promised with an oath to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001532"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joseph made the Israelites swear an oath, saying, "God will certainly come to your aid, and when He does, you must carry my bones up from this place."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100001533"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joseph died at the age of one hundred and ten years. They preserved his body through embalming, and he was placed in a coffin in Egypt.</span></p>






</body></html>