<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Nahum Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sxyqah.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:1db78bb5-db5f-ad1b-883f-d4514f0eba3b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Nahum Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022686"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the prophecy concerning Nineveh. The book containing the vision of Nahum from Elkosh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022687"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God is passionate and the LORD executes justice; the LORD carries out justice and is filled with righteous anger. The LORD will bring retribution upon His adversaries, and He reserves His wrath for His enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022688"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD is patient and slow to anger, yet immense in power, and He will by no means clear the guilty of their wrongdoing. The LORD moves in the whirlwind and the storm, and the clouds are like the dust beneath His feet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022689"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He commands the sea, and it becomes dry; He dries up all the rivers. Bashan withers, and Carmel fades; even the blossoms of Lebanon wither away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022690"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The mountains tremble before him, and the hills dissolve; the earth is set ablaze by his presence—yes, the whole world and all who live in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022691"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who can endure the intensity of his wrath? Who can withstand the burning heat of his anger? His fury pours out like blazing fire, and even the strongest rocks are shattered before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022692"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD is good, a secure refuge in times of distress; and He is intimately aware of those who place their trust in Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022693"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But with a devastating flood, He will bring complete destruction to its place, and darkness will relentlessly pursue His enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022694"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What are you plotting against the LORD? He will bring about complete destruction; trouble will not arise a second time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022695"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For though they are entangled like thorns and though they are as drunk as drunkards, they will be consumed like completely dry stubble.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022696"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A person has emerged from among you who devises evil plans against the LORD—a wicked advisor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022697"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: Even if they are at peace and numerous, they will still be cut down when the destroyer passes through. Though I have brought suffering upon you, I will not afflict you any longer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022698"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At this time, I will shatter the yoke that burdens you and tear apart the chains that bind you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022699"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has issued a decree concerning you: your name will no longer be perpetuated. From the house of your gods, I will cut off the carved image and the cast idol. I will prepare your grave, for you are contemptible.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022700"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look! On the mountains, the feet of one who brings good news, who proclaims peace! O Judah, celebrate your appointed festivals, fulfill your vows; for the wicked will no longer invade you—they have been completely destroyed.</span></p>






</body></html>