<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sy19x4.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f5a3f257-6be2-9a52-cb69-00fb2af9c2fd" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 20</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David fled from Naioth in Ramah and went to Jonathan. He said to him, "What have I done? What wrong have I committed? What sin have I committed against your father that he is determined to take my life?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he replied, "Far be it from me! You will not die. My father does nothing, whether great or small, without telling me. Why would my father hide this matter from me? It cannot be so."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David also made a solemn vow and said, "Your father knows very well that I have found favor in your eyes, and he has thought, 'Jonathan must not learn of this, or he will be distressed.' But as surely as the LORD lives and as surely as your soul lives, I am only a step away from death."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jonathan said to David, "Whatever your heart desires, I will do it for you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Jonathan, "Tomorrow is the new moon, and I am expected to dine with the king. But let me go and hide myself in the open country until the evening of the third day."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If your father notices my absence and becomes concerned, tell him, "David urgently requested my permission to go quickly to Bethlehem, his hometown, because there is an annual sacrifice there for his entire family."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If he responds by saying, "It is well," then your servant will have peace. But if he becomes extremely angry, then you can be certain that he has resolved to bring about harm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must show kindness to your servant, for you have brought your servant into a sacred covenant with the LORD alongside you. However, if I am guilty of any wrongdoing, then kill me yourself—why should you bring me to your father?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan replied, "That would never happen! If I knew for certain that my father had decided to bring harm upon you, would I not tell you about it?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then David said to Jonathan, "Who will inform me? Or what if your father responds to you harshly?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan said to David, "Come, let us go out to the field." So both of them went out into the field together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan said to David, "By the LORD, the God of Israel, when I have spoken with my father tomorrow or the day after, and if he is favorable toward you, I will send word to you and let you know.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the LORD deal severely with Jonathan, and even more so, if my father intends to harm you. If I learn of any evil plan against you, I will inform you and send you away safely. May you go in peace, and may the LORD be with you, just as He has been with my father.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you must not only show me the faithful love of the LORD while I am still alive, so that I do not die,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must also never cease to show kindness to my family forever, not even when the LORD has completely removed all of David’s enemies from the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jonathan made a binding agreement with the family of David, declaring, "May the LORD hold David's enemies accountable for this."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan made David swear again, because of the deep love he had for him; for he loved David as much as he loved his own life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jonathan said to David, "Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be missed because your seat will be empty."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After you have waited three days, go down quickly and return to the place where you hid yourself when the matter was urgent. Stay there by the stone of Ezel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will shoot three arrows to the side of it, as if aiming at a target.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will send a young servant and tell him, “Go and find the arrows.” If I specifically say to him, “Look, the arrows are on this side of you, pick them up,” then you may come back, for it will mean that all is well with you, and no harm will come to you—as surely as the LORD lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if I say to the young man, "Look, the arrows are beyond you," then go on your way, for the LORD has sent you away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding the matter that you and I have discussed, let it be known that the LORD will stand as a witness between you and me forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So David concealed himself in the open field. When the new moon arrived, the king took his seat to partake of the meal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king took his usual place, sitting on his seat by the wall as he always did. Jonathan stood up, and Abner sat down beside Saul, but David’s seat remained empty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, Saul did not say anything that day, for he thought, "Something must have happened to him; he is unclean—certainly, he is unclean."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, which was the second day of the month, David’s seat at the table was empty. Saul said to his son Jonathan, “Why has the son of Jesse not come to the meal, neither yesterday nor today?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan replied to Saul, "David urgently requested my permission to go to Bethlehem."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "Please let me go, for our family has a sacrifice to offer in the city, and my brother has instructed me to be there. Now, if I have found favor in your sight, I beg you, allow me to leave and see my brothers." That is why he did not come to the king's table.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul’s anger burned fiercely against Jonathan, and he said to him, “You son of a defiant and rebellious woman! Don’t I know that you have sided with Jesse’s son to your own shame and to the disgrace of your mother’s honor?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007762"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As long as Jesse’s son remains alive on the earth, you will never be secure, nor will your kingdom endure. Therefore, send for him now and bring him to me, for he is destined to die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007763"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan responded to his father Saul, saying, "Why should he be put to death? What has he done?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007764"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul hurled a spear at David, intending to strike him down. By this, Jonathan realized that his father was resolved to kill David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007765"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Jonathan got up from the table, burning with anger, and he refused to eat any food on the second day of the month. He was deeply distressed for David, because his father had treated him with such disgrace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007766"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next morning, Jonathan went out to the field at the agreed-upon time to meet David, and he brought a young servant with him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007767"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to his servant, "Go quickly and see where the arrows I shoot land." As the servant ran, Jonathan shot an arrow beyond him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007768"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the young man reached the place where Jonathan had shot the arrow, Jonathan called out to him, saying, "Isn’t the arrow farther ahead of you?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007769"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan called out to the young man, "Hurry, be quick, don’t delay!" So Jonathan’s servant collected the arrows and returned to his master.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007770"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the young man knew nothing about the matter; only Jonathan and David were aware of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007771"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan handed his weapons to his young servant and said to him, "Go, take these to the city."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007772"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As soon as the young man had left, David got up from his hiding place toward the south, fell facedown on the ground, and bowed three times. Then they embraced each other and wept together, until David could no longer contain his emotions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007773"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jonathan said to David, "Go in peace, for we have both made a solemn oath in the name of the LORD, declaring, 'The LORD will be a witness between me and you, and between my descendants and your descendants forever.'" Then David got up and left, and Jonathan returned to the city.</span></p>






</body></html>