<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sy1kmz.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c64d70ba-1414-f698-abeb-536bc2cffb8b" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005895"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua got up early in the morning, and he and all the Israelites set out from Shittim. They arrived at the Jordan River and camped there before crossing over.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005896"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Three days later, the officers went throughout the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005897"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They instructed the people, saying, "When you see the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God, carried by the Levitical priests, you are to leave your position and follow it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005898"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you must maintain a distance between yourselves and the ark, approximately two thousand cubits. Do not come close to it, so that you may clearly see the path you are to follow, for you have never traveled this way before.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005899"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua said to the people, "Prepare yourselves and make yourselves holy, for tomorrow the LORD will perform extraordinary deeds among you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005900"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua instructed the priests, saying, "Carry the ark of the covenant and go ahead of the people." So they lifted the ark of the covenant and proceeded in front of the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Joshua, "Today I will begin to exalt you in the eyes of all Israel, so that they may understand that just as I was with Moses, I will also be with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall instruct the priests carrying the ark of the covenant, saying, "When you reach the edge of the waters of the Jordan, you must stand still in the Jordan."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua said to the Israelites, "Come here and listen to the words of the LORD your God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua said, "By this you will know that the living God is among you, and He will certainly drive out before you the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Hivites, the Perizzites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, and the Jebusites."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the ark of the covenant of the Lord, who rules over all the earth, is going ahead of you into the Jordan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, choose twelve men from the tribes of Israel, one man from each tribe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: As soon as the priests carrying the ark of the LORD, the Lord of all the earth, set the soles of their feet in the waters of the Jordan, the flowing waters coming from upstream will be cut off and will stand still, rising up in a heap.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the people set out from their tents to cross the Jordan River, with the priests carrying the ark of the covenant ahead of them,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As those who were carrying the ark reached the Jordan River, and the feet of the priests bearing the ark touched the edge of the water—for the Jordan overflows its banks throughout the harvest season—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The waters flowing from upstream halted and rose up in a heap, a great distance away from the city of Adam, which is near Zaretan. Meanwhile, the waters flowing downstream toward the Sea of the Arabah—the Salt Sea—were completely cut off and dried up. So the people crossed over opposite Jericho.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests who carried the ark of the covenant of the LORD stood firmly on dry ground in the middle of the Jordan River, while all the Israelites crossed over on dry ground. They continued crossing until the entire nation had completely passed over the Jordan.</span></p>






</body></html>