<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 17</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sy6g97.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0ad00a6b-2140-ec1a-8d64-7386251753a1" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 17</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010865"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One day, while David was settled in his palace, he said to Nathan the prophet, "Look, I am living in a house made of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of the LORD remains under a tent."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010866"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Nathan said to David, "Do everything that is in your heart, for God is with you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010867"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That very night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010868"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go and tell David, my servant, this is what the LORD says: You are not the one to build a house for me to live in.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010869"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For I have not lived in a permanent house from the day I brought Israel out of Egypt until now; instead, I have moved from one tent to another, from one dwelling place to the next.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010870"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In all the places where I have walked with all of Israel, did I ever say a word to any of the leaders of Israel, whom I appointed to shepherd my people, asking, "Why have you not built me a house of cedar?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010871"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, this is what you shall say to my servant David: This is what the LORD of Hosts declares: I took you from the pasture, from tending the flock, to be ruler over my people Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010872"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have defeated all your enemies before you. I have given you a reputation as great as that of the most renowned people on earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010873"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also establish a place for my people Israel, and I will settle them there. They will live in their own land and will not be uprooted again. Nor will the children of wickedness oppress them anymore, as they did in the past.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010874"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the time I appointed judges to govern my people Israel, I have acted to subdue all your enemies. Moreover, I declare to you that the LORD will establish a lasting dynasty for you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010875"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When your days come to an end and you pass away to join your ancestors, I will raise up your offspring after you, one of your own sons, and I will firmly establish his kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010876"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will build a house for me, and I will establish his throne forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010877"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will be a father to him, and he will be my son. I will never withdraw my steadfast love from him, as I took it away from the one who ruled before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010878"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I will establish him firmly in my house and in my kingdom forever, and his throne will be securely established for all time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010879"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In accordance with all these words and the entirety of this vision, Nathan conveyed the message to David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010880"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King David went in and sat in the presence of the LORD, and he said, "Who am I, LORD God, and what is my family, that you have brought me to this point?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010881"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet this seemed insignificant in your sight, O God, for you have also spoken about your servant’s household for a distant future, and you have honored me as one of great stature, O LORD God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010882"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What more can David say to you to honor your servant? For you know your servant intimately.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010883"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, for the sake of your servant and in accordance with your own will, you have accomplished all this greatness by revealing all these magnificent things.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010884"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O LORD, there is no one like you, nor is there any god besides you, as we have heard and understood with our own ears.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010885"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What nation on earth is like your people Israel, whom God chose to redeem as His own, making you a people renowned for greatness and awe-inspiring deeds? He drove out nations before you and rescued you from Egypt to establish His name through you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010886"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You have established your people Israel as your own forever, and you, LORD, have become their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010887"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, LORD, let the promise you have made concerning your servant and his family stand firm forever, and fulfill what you have declared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010888"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May it be firmly established so that your name may be exalted forever, with people declaring, "The LORD of hosts is the God of Israel, indeed, a God for Israel." And may the house of David, your servant, be established and secure before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010889"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For you, my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build a house for him. Therefore, your servant has found the courage to pray before you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010890"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, LORD, you are God, and you have promised this goodness to your servant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010891"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, may it please you to bless the household of your servant, so that it may endure in your presence forever. For you, O LORD, are the one who blesses, and what you bless is blessed forever.</span></p>






</body></html>