<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Zephaniah Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sy7c1t.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f7679560-d2c3-4511-825c-965175277843" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Zephaniah Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message from the LORD that came to Zephaniah, the son of Cushi, grandson of Gedaliah, great-grandson of Amariah, and descendant of Hizkiah. This occurred during the reign of Josiah, the son of Amon, king of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"I will completely destroy everything from the land," declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will destroy both humans and animals; I will wipe out the birds of the sky, the fish of the sea, and the idols that lead people astray, along with the wicked. I will remove humanity from the face of the earth, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will also extend my hand against Judah and against all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. I will eliminate every trace of Baal from this place, along with the names of the idolatrous priests and the priests who serve false gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And those who worship the heavenly bodies on their rooftops, as well as those who worship and swear allegiance to the LORD, yet also swear by Malcham.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And those who have turned away from the LORD, as well as those who have not sought the LORD or inquired of Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be silent in the presence of the Lord GOD, for the day of the LORD is near. The LORD has prepared a sacrifice and has invited those who are to partake in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on the day of the LORD's appointed sacrifice that I will bring judgment upon the rulers, the king's descendants, and all those who dress themselves in foreign attire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that very day, I will bring judgment upon all who recklessly cross boundaries, those who fill their masters' houses with acts of violence and deceit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen on that day, declares the LORD, that there will be the sound of wailing from the Fish Gate, a mournful cry from the Second Quarter, and a loud crashing from the hills.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Wail, you who dwell in Maktesh, for all the traders are destroyed; everyone who handles silver is cut down.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And it will happen at that time that I will thoroughly examine Jerusalem with lamps, and I will bring judgment upon those who are complacent and settled in their apathy—those who say in their hearts, "The LORD will not act for good, nor will He bring harm."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As a result, their possessions will be plundered, and their homes left in ruins. They will build houses but never live in them; they will plant vineyards but never taste the wine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The great day of the LORD is close at hand—it is near and coming swiftly. The sound of the day of the LORD is approaching, a day when even the strongest warrior will cry out in bitter anguish.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">That day is a day of wrath, a time of anguish and distress, a day of ruin and devastation, a day of darkness and deep gloom, a day of clouds and heavy darkness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A day of the sounding of the trumpet and the battle cry against the fortified cities and against the lofty towers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will bring such distress upon people that they will stumble about like blind individuals, for they have sinned against the LORD. Their blood will be poured out like dust, and their flesh will become like refuse.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Neither their silver nor their gold will be able to save them on the day of the LORD's wrath. The entire land will be consumed by the fire of His fierce anger, for He will swiftly and completely destroy all who live in the land.</span></p>






</body></html>