<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Micah Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sy8xsd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f8083aae-e424-f9b4-920f-b0ed448cb624" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Micah Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the message from the LORD that came to Micah of Moresheth during the reigns of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. It is the vision he received concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, all you people; pay attention, O earth, and everything in it: and let the Lord GOD be a witness against you, the Lord from His holy temple.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For look, the LORD is coming out from His dwelling place; He will descend and tread upon the lofty heights of the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The mountains will melt beneath Him, and the valleys will split apart, like wax before the fire, like water cascading down a steep slope.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of this has happened because of the rebellion of Jacob and the sins of the house of Israel. What is the rebellion of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And what are the pagan shrines of Judah? Are they not Jerusalem?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will reduce Samaria to a heap of rubble, like a field left in ruins, and turn it into a place for planting vineyards. I will hurl its stones into the valley, laying bare its very foundations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the carved idols will be shattered to pieces, and all the offerings made to them will be burned in the fire. I will reduce all their idols to ruins, for they were acquired through the wages of prostitution, and they will return to being used as the wages of prostitution.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I will lament and cry out in anguish; I will walk about bare and exposed. I will wail like the jackals and mourn like the owls.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For her injury is beyond healing; it has reached Judah and has come to the very gate of my people, even to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not announce it in Gath; do not weep openly. In the town of Aphrah, roll yourself in the dust as a sign of mourning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go forth, you inhabitants of Saphir, exposed in your shame. The people of Zaanan have not come out to join the mourning of Beth-ezel; they will take from you their place of refuge.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Maroth anxiously hoped for relief and prosperity, but instead, disaster descended from the LORD, reaching even to the gates of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O you who dwell in Lachish, harness the chariot to the swift steed; for you were the starting point of sin for the people of Zion. Indeed, the rebellious acts of Israel are traced back to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you will send tribute to Moresheth-gath, but the houses of Achzib will prove to be a deception to the kings of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will indeed bring an heir to you, O inhabitant of Mareshah; the one destined to rule will come as far as Adullam, the pride and glory of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shave your head and cut off your hair in mourning for your beloved children; make your baldness as vast as the eagle's, for your children have been taken away from you into captivity.</span></p>






</body></html>