<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\syc7qh.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a3cdd246-bffd-9d5f-059b-161deeadbdb1" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009605"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A certain woman, the wife of one of the sons of the prophets, cried out to Elisha, saying, "Your servant, my husband, is dead. You know that your servant revered the LORD. But now the creditor has come to take my two sons as his slaves."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009606"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha asked her, “What can I do for you? Tell me, what do you have in your house?” She replied, “Your servant has nothing in the house except a small jar of oil.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009607"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said, "Go and ask all your neighbors for empty containers—as many as you can find. Do not gather just a few."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009608"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you enter, you must close the door behind you and your sons. Then pour the oil into all the containers, and set aside each one that is full.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009609"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So she left him and closed the door behind her and her sons. They brought the containers to her, and she began to pour the oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009610"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then, when the containers were full, she said to her son, "Bring me another container." But he replied, "There are no more containers left." At that moment, the flow of oil stopped.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009611"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then she went and informed the man of God. He said to her, "Go, sell the oil, pay off your debt, and you and your children can live on what remains."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009612"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One day, Elisha traveled to Shunem, where there was a prominent woman who urged him to eat a meal. From then on, whenever he passed through that area, he would stop there to eat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009613"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said to her husband, "Listen, I realize now that this man who regularly passes by us is a holy man of God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009614"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let us build a small room on the wall, I ask you, and place there a bed, a table, a chair, and a lamp for him. Then, whenever he comes to us, he can stay there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009615"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One day, he arrived there and went into the upper room to rest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009616"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Elisha said to his servant Gehazi, "Summon this woman from Shunem." So Gehazi called for her, and she came and stood before Elisha.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009617"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to her, "Please tell her, 'You have shown great concern for us in all these matters. What can we do for you? Should we speak to the king or the commander of the army on your behalf?'" But she replied, "I live among my own people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009618"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "What then should be done for her?" Gehazi replied, "Truly, she has no children, and her husband is old."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009619"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Summon her." When they called her, she came and stood at the entrance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009620"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said, "At this time next year, when the season comes around, you will hold a son in your arms." But she replied, "No, my lord, man of God, please do not deceive your servant."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009621"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman became pregnant and gave birth to a son at the exact time Elisha had told her, in keeping with the appointed time of life.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009622"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the child had grown, it happened one day that he went out to his father, who was with the harvesters.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009623"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The boy cried out to his father, "My head, my head!" His father then instructed a servant, "Take him to his mother."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009624"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had taken him and brought him to his mother, the boy sat on her lap until noon, and then he died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009625"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She went up and placed him on the bed of the man of God, then closed the door behind her and left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009626"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She called to her husband and said, "Please send me one of the servants and a donkey, so I can hurry to the man of God and return quickly."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009627"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He asked, "Why are you going to him today? It is neither the new moon nor the Sabbath." But she replied, "All is well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009628"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then she prepared a donkey and said to her servant, "Drive on and keep going; do not slow down for me unless I tell you to."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009629"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So she set out and went to the man of God at Mount Carmel. When the man of God saw her approaching from a distance, he said to his servant Gehazi, "Look, there is the Shunammite woman coming."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009630"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go quickly, I urge you, to meet her and ask her, "Are you well? Is your husband well? Is the child well?" And she replied, "All is well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009631"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When she arrived at the hill where the man of God was, she grasped his feet. Gehazi approached to push her away, but the man of God said, "Leave her alone, for her soul is deeply troubled, and the LORD has concealed it from me; He has not revealed it to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009632"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then she replied, "Did I ask my lord for a son? Did I not say to you, 'Do not mislead me'?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009633"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Elisha said to Gehazi, "Prepare yourself for a journey—tie up your robe and take my staff in your hand. Go quickly, and do not greet anyone you meet along the way. If anyone greets you, do not respond. When you arrive, place my staff on the child's face."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009634"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The child’s mother replied, “As surely as the LORD lives and as you yourself live, I will not leave you.” So he got up and went with her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gehazi went ahead of them and placed the staff on the child’s face, but there was no sound or response. So he returned to meet Elisha and told him, “The child has not awakened.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Elisha entered the house, he saw that the child was dead, lying on his bed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he went inside and closed the door behind the two of them, and he prayed to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He went up, lay down on the child, and placed his mouth on the child’s mouth, his eyes on the child’s eyes, and his hands on the child’s hands. As he stretched himself over the child, the child’s body grew warm.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Elisha went back into the house and paced back and forth. Afterward, he went up to the child, lay down on him, and placed his body over the child’s. The boy sneezed seven times, and then he opened his eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Elisha called for Gehazi and said, "Summon the Shunammite woman." So Gehazi called her, and when she came to Elisha, he said to her, "Take your son."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then she entered the house, fell at his feet, and bowed low to the ground. Afterward, she picked up her son and left.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha returned to Gilgal, and there was a severe famine in the land. The company of prophets was sitting before him, and he said to his servant, "Put the large pot on the fire and cook stew for the company of prophets."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One man went out into the field to gather herbs and found a wild vine. He picked a lapful of wild gourds from it and brought them back. He then chopped them up and added them to the stew, for they did not recognize what they were.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they served the stew for the men to eat. But as they were eating from the pot, they cried out and said, "Man of God, there is death in the pot!" And they could not eat it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Elisha said, "Bring some flour." He threw it into the pot and said, "Serve it to the people so they may eat." And there was no longer any harm in the pot.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A man came from Baal-shalisha and brought the man of God some of the firstfruits of his harvest: twenty loaves of barley bread and fresh grain still in their husks. He said, "Give this to the people so they may eat."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his servant said, "How can I set this before a hundred men?" But Elisha replied, "Give it to the people so they may eat, for this is what the LORD says: 'They will eat, and there will be some left over.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So he placed the food before them, and they ate, and there was some left over, just as the LORD had said.</span></p>






</body></html>