<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Amos Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sycaqt.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8161f4d5-520b-151b-d9af-91171d141cf6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Amos Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022366"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the words of Amos, who was one of the shepherds from Tekoa. He received visions concerning Israel during the reign of Uzziah, king of Judah, and during the reign of Jeroboam, son of Joash, king of Israel. This was two years before the earthquake.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022367"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He declared, "The LORD will roar from Zion and raise His voice from Jerusalem. The pastures of the shepherds will mourn, and the summit of Mount Carmel will wither away."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022368"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "For three sins of Damascus, and even for four, I will not relent in punishing them, because they threshed Gilead with iron threshing sledges.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022369"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will unleash a fire upon the house of Hazael, and it will consume the palaces of Ben-hadad.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022370"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will shatter the gate bar of Damascus and eliminate the inhabitants from the Valley of Aven, as well as the ruler who holds authority from Beth Eden. The people of Syria will be taken captive to Kir, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "For three sins of Gaza, and for four, I will not relent in punishing them, because they deported entire communities, handing them over to Edom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I will unleash fire upon the walls of Gaza, and it will consume its palaces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will destroy the inhabitants of Ashdod, and the ruler who wields power in Ashkelon. I will turn my hand against Ekron, and the remaining Philistines will meet their end. This is the declaration of the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "For three sins of Tyre, and even for four, I will not relent from punishing them, because they handed over entire communities as captives to Edom and disregarded the covenant of brotherhood."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will unleash fire upon the walls of Tyre, and it will consume its palaces.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "For three sins of Edom, and even for four, I will not relent from punishing them, because they pursued their brother with the sword, stifled all compassion, and let their anger rage unchecked, maintaining their fury forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I will unleash fire upon Teman, and it will consume the palaces of Bozrah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what the LORD says: "For three sins of the Ammonites, and for four, I will not hold back punishment, because they ripped open pregnant women in Gilead in order to expand their territory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But I will set a fire within the walls of Rabbah, and it will consume its palaces, accompanied by the clamor of battle on the day of conflict, and by a raging storm on the day of the whirlwind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their king will be taken into captivity, along with his officials, declares the LORD.</span></p>






</body></html>