<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Chronicles Chapter 26</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sycs83.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c133ea90-7b1c-439c-505d-a6c6ce3ab6e6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Chronicles Chapter 26</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011079"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding the divisions of the gatekeepers: From the Korahites, Meshelemiah son of Kore, who was among the descendants of Asaph, was appointed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011080"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sons of Meshelemiah were Zechariah, the firstborn; Jediael, the second; Zebadiah, the third; and Jathniel, the fourth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011081"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elam was the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, and Elioenai the seventh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011082"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the sons of Obed-edom were as follows: Shemaiah, the firstborn; Jehozabad, the second; Joah, the third; Sacar, the fourth; and Nethaneel, the fifth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011083"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ammiel was the sixth, Issachar the seventh, and Peulthai the eighth, for God had blessed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011084"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sons were also born to Shemaiah, his son, who held authority over their father's household because they were courageous and mighty warriors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011085"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sons of Shemaiah were Othni, Rephael, Obed, and Elzabad. Their relatives, Elihu and Semachiah, were men of great strength.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011086"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All these were descendants of Obed-edom: they, along with their sons and relatives, were capable and strong men, well-suited for the work of service. In total, there were sixty-two from the family of Obed-edom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011087"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Meshelemiah had sons and brothers, all of whom were capable and strong men, totaling eighteen in number.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011088"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hosah, a descendant of Merari, also had sons. Simri was the leader among them, even though he was not the firstborn. His father had appointed him as the chief.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011089"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hilkiah was the second, Tebaliah the third, and Zechariah the fourth. All the sons and relatives of Hosah totaled thirteen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011090"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Among these were the divisions of the gatekeepers, including the leading men, who were assigned specific duties to serve in the house of the LORD, each group responsible for their designated tasks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011091"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They drew lots, both the lesser and the greater, according to their ancestral families, for each gate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011092"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The portion of land to the east was assigned to Shelemiah. Then, for his son Zechariah, who was a wise counselor, they cast lots, and his portion was determined to be in the north.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011093"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To Obed-edom, the southern portion was assigned, and to his sons, the storehouse was given.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011094"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The lot fell to Shuppim and Hosah for the western side, near the Shallecheth Gate, along the ascending causeway, with one guard post opposite another.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011095"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the east, there were six Levites stationed each day; to the north, four each day; to the south, four each day; and at the storehouse, two at a time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011096"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the western side of Parbar, there were four stationed at the causeway, and two at Parbar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011097"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here are the assigned duties of the gatekeepers, divided among the descendants of Korah and the descendants of Merari.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011098"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Among the Levites, Ahijah was entrusted with the oversight of the treasures in the house of God, as well as the treasures of the consecrated offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011099"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Regarding the descendants of Laadan: the sons of Laadan the Gershonite, who were the leading family heads of Laadan the Gershonite, included Jehieli.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011100"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sons of Jehieli were Zetham and his brother Joel, who were entrusted with overseeing the treasuries of the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011101"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the descendants of Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011102"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shebuel, the son of Gershom and grandson of Moses, was appointed as the overseer of the treasuries.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011103"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his relatives through Eliezer were: Rehabiah his son, Jeshaiah his son, Joram his son, Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011104"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shelomith and his relatives were in charge of all the treasuries containing the sacred offerings that had been dedicated by King David, the leaders of the families, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and the officers of the army.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011105"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the plunder taken in battles, they set aside offerings to support the upkeep of the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011106"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the items that Samuel the prophet, Saul son of Kish, Abner son of Ner, and Joab son of Zeruiah had consecrated—along with anything else that anyone had dedicated—were entrusted to Shelomith and his brothers for safekeeping.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011107"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were assigned to oversee the external affairs of Israel, serving as administrators and judges.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011108"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his relatives, who were courageous men, numbered 1,700. They were appointed as officials over the Israelites west of the Jordan, overseeing all matters related to the work of the LORD and the service of the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011109"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Among the descendants of Hebron, Jerijah was the leader, a prominent figure among the Hebronites, as recorded in the genealogies of his ancestors. In the fortieth year of King David's reign, a search was conducted, and among them were discovered courageous and mighty warriors at Jazer in Gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011110"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David’s relatives, who were courageous and capable men, numbered two thousand seven hundred. They were leaders of their families, and King David appointed them to oversee the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. Their responsibilities included all matters related to the worship of God and the administration of the king’s affairs.</span></p>






</body></html>