<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 28</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\syeti4.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:8bd1a33b-c4be-aeff-6aef-a2c661524710" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 28</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027901"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had safely reached land, they discovered that the island was called Malta.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027902"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The local inhabitants showed us extraordinary kindness. They lit a fire and welcomed all of us, providing warmth and shelter because of the heavy rain and the cold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027903"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Paul had collected a bundle of sticks and placed them on the fire, a viper, driven out by the heat, emerged and bit his hand, clinging to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027904"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the local people saw the venomous snake hanging from his hand, they said to one another, "This man must certainly be a murderer. Even though he escaped from the sea, justice will not allow him to live."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027905"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He shook the creature off into the fire and suffered no injury.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027906"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they expected him to swell up or suddenly drop dead. But after watching him for a long time and seeing that no harm came to him, they changed their opinion and declared that he was a god.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027907"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In that region were the estates of the leading man of the island, named Publius. He welcomed us and hospitably provided lodging for three days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027908"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It happened that Publius’s father was suffering from a fever and dysentery. Paul went to him, prayed, placed his hands on him, and healed him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027909"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this occurred, others on the island who were afflicted with illnesses also came and were healed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They also showed us great respect and bestowed many honors upon us. When we were ready to leave, they provided us with all the supplies we needed for our journey.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After three months, we set sail on an Alexandrian ship that had spent the winter on the island. The ship bore the emblem of Castor and Pollux.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When we arrived at Syracuse, we stayed there for three days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From there, we sailed around and arrived at Rhegium. After one day, a south wind began to blow, and on the following day, we reached Puteoli.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We came across fellow believers there, and they urged us to stay with them for seven days. After that, we continued our journey toward Rome.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the believers there heard about us, they came out to meet us as far as the Forum of Appius and the Three Taverns. When Paul saw them, he thanked God and was encouraged.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When we arrived in Rome, the centurion handed over the prisoners to the commander of the guard. However, Paul was permitted to live by himself, with a soldier assigned to guard him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Three days later, Paul summoned the leading members of the Jewish community to meet with him. When they had gathered, he addressed them, saying, "My fellow Jews, although I have done nothing wrong against our people or the traditions of our ancestors, I was arrested in Jerusalem and handed over to the Romans as a prisoner."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had thoroughly examined me, they were prepared to release me, since there was no basis for a death sentence in my case.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the Jewish leaders opposed this, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar, not because I had any charge to bring against my own people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this reason, I have summoned you to see you and speak with you, because it is for the hope of Israel that I am bound with this chain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied to him, "We have not received any letters from Judea about you, nor has any of the brothers who came here reported or spoken anything harmful concerning you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We would like to hear your thoughts on this matter, for concerning this group, we are aware that it is widely criticized everywhere.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they had set a day to meet with him, many people came to his lodging. He explained and bore witness to the kingdom of God, persuading them about Jesus by drawing from both the Law of Moses and the writings of the prophets. He continued this from morning until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of the people believed what was being said, while others did not believe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they could not come to an agreement among themselves, they left after Paul had made this final statement: "The Holy Spirit spoke rightly through the prophet Isaiah to our ancestors, saying..."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said, "Go to this people and tell them, 'You will indeed hear, but you will not understand; you will indeed see, but you will not perceive.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the heart of this people has become calloused, and their ears are hard of hearing, and they have shut their eyes tightly; otherwise, they might see with their eyes, hear with their ears, understand with their heart, and turn back, and I would heal them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, let it be clearly understood by you that God’s salvation has been sent to the Gentiles, and they will listen to it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had spoken these words, the Jews left and engaged in intense debate among themselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Paul remained for two full years in a house he rented, welcoming all who came to visit him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Proclaiming the reign of God and instructing people in the matters pertaining to the Lord Jesus Christ, he did so with complete boldness, and no one hindered him.</span></p>






</body></html>