<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Daniel Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\syfknt.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3fe59d51-57bc-e1a0-73cd-5dd4a1903760" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Daniel Chapter 9</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the first year of Darius, the son of Ahasuerus, who was descended from the Medes and became king over the kingdom of the Chaldeans,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, discerned from the writings the number of years that the word of the LORD had revealed to the prophet Jeremiah—specifically, that the desolation of Jerusalem would last seventy years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I turned my attention to the Lord God, earnestly seeking Him through prayer and heartfelt pleas, accompanied by fasting, wearing sackcloth, and sitting in ashes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I prayed to the LORD my God and confessed, saying, "O Lord, you are the great and awe-inspiring God, who faithfully keeps your covenant and shows steadfast love to those who love you and keep your commandments."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have sinned, acted unjustly, and done evil; we have rebelled by turning away from your commands and your righteous decrees.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have not listened to your servants, the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our leaders, our ancestors, and to all the people of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Lord, righteousness belongs to you, but to us belongs shame, as is evident today—to the people of Judah, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, both near and far, in every land where you have scattered them because of the unfaithfulness they have committed against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Lord, shame and disgrace are ours—belonging to us, our kings, our leaders, and our ancestors—because we have sinned against you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To the Lord our God belong compassion and forgiveness, even though we have rebelled against Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We have not heeded the voice of the LORD our God by following His laws, which He presented to us through His servants, the prophets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Indeed, all of Israel has violated your law by turning away and refusing to obey your voice. As a result, the curse has been poured out upon us, along with the solemn oath written in the law of Moses, the servant of God, because we have sinned against him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has fulfilled the words He spoke against us and against our rulers who governed us, by bringing upon us a great disaster. For nothing like what has happened to Jerusalem has ever occurred under the entire heavens.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As it is written in the Law of Moses, all this disaster has come upon us, yet we have not sought the favor of the LORD our God by turning away from our sins and gaining insight into your truth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD has kept watch over the calamity and brought it upon us, for the LORD our God is just in all His actions that He carries out. We did not obey His voice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022004"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, O Lord our God, you have brought your people out of the land of Egypt with great power and have made your name renowned, as it is to this day. We have sinned; we have acted wickedly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022005"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Lord, in accordance with your perfect righteousness, I earnestly plead with you to turn away your anger and wrath from your city Jerusalem, your holy mountain. Because of our sins and the wrongdoing of our ancestors, Jerusalem and your people have become an object of scorn and disgrace to all those around us.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, O our God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his earnest pleas. Let your favor rest upon your sanctuary, which lies in ruins, for the sake of the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O my God, turn your ear and listen; open your eyes and see our devastation, and the city that bears your name. We do not bring our prayers before you because of our own righteousness, but because of your abundant mercy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Lord, listen; O Lord, forgive; O Lord, pay attention and act. Do not delay, for your own sake, O my God, because your city and your people bear your name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While I was still speaking, praying, and confessing my sins and the sins of my people Israel, and presenting my heartfelt plea before the LORD my God for His holy mountain—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While I was still speaking in prayer, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the earlier vision, came swiftly to me at the time of the evening offering. He approached me, having been sent in flight.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He explained to me and spoke with me, saying, "O Daniel, I have now come to grant you insight and understanding."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the very moment you began to pray, a response was given, and I have come to declare it to you, for you are deeply cherished. Therefore, grasp the meaning of this matter and reflect carefully on the vision.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A period of seventy weeks has been decreed for your people and your holy city, to bring an end to rebellion, to put a stop to sin, to atone for wrongdoing, to establish everlasting righteousness, to fulfill the vision and prophecy, and to consecrate the Most Holy Place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Understand and recognize this: from the time the decree is issued to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until the coming of the Anointed Leader, there will be seven weeks, and then sixty-two weeks. During this time, the streets and the city wall will be rebuilt, though it will happen in times of difficulty and distress.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After a period of sixty-two weeks, the Messiah will be cut off, though not for his own sake. Then the people of the ruler who is to come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. Its end will come with overwhelming destruction, and until the conclusion of the war, desolations are decreed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will establish a covenant with many for one week (seven years), but in the middle of that week, he will put an end to sacrifice and offering. And because of the overwhelming presence of abominations, he will bring desolation until the appointed time of destruction is poured out upon the desolate.</span></p>






</body></html>