<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Daniel Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\symgmd.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:0741557a-1792-01a4-a1b5-3b07316200de" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Daniel Chapter 3</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">King Nebuchadnezzar had a golden statue made, which was sixty cubits high and six cubits wide. He set it up on the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Nebuchadnezzar issued a command to assemble the officials of the kingdom: the regional leaders, governors, military commanders, judges, financial officers, legal advisors, magistrates, and all the provincial authorities. They were summoned to attend the dedication ceremony of the statue that King Nebuchadnezzar had erected.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the officials, governors, military commanders, judges, treasurers, advisors, magistrates, and all the provincial leaders assembled for the dedication of the statue that King Nebuchadnezzar had erected. They stood before the statue that Nebuchadnezzar had set up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a herald proclaimed loudly, "This command is given to you, O peoples, nations, and those of every language:"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At the moment you hear the sound of the horn, flute, harp, lyre, zither, pipes, and all other musical instruments, you must bow down and worship the golden statue that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And whoever does not bow down and worship shall immediately be thrown into the midst of a blazing fiery furnace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that moment, when all the people heard the sound of the horn, flute, lyre, harp, lute, and all kinds of music, everyone—people of every nation and language—bowed down and worshiped the golden statue that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, some Chaldeans approached and brought charges against the Jews.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They spoke and said to King Nebuchadnezzar, "O king, may you live forever!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You, O king, have issued a decree that every person who hears the sound of the horn, flute, harp, lyre, zither, pipe, and all kinds of music must bow down and worship the golden image.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And whoever does not bow down and worship shall be thrown into the midst of a blazing fiery furnace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There are some Jews whom you have appointed to oversee the affairs of the province of Babylon—Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego. These men, O king, have shown no regard for your authority: they do not serve your gods, nor do they worship the golden image that you have set up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Nebuchadnezzar, filled with intense anger and fury, gave the order to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego before him. So they brought these men into the presence of the king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nebuchadnezzar spoke and said to them, "Is it true, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, that you do not serve my gods or bow down to worship the golden image I have set up?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, if you are prepared—whenever you hear the sound of the horn, flute, harp, lyre, zither, pipes, and all kinds of music—to bow down and worship the image I have made, then all will be well. But if you do not worship it, you will immediately be thrown into the midst of a blazing fiery furnace. And what god is there who can rescue you from my power?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego replied to the king, saying, "O Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to defend ourselves before you in this matter."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021825"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If this is the case, the God we serve is fully capable of rescuing us from the blazing furnace, and He will deliver us from your power, O king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021826"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you do not grant our request, let it be made clear to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods or bow down to the golden statue that you have set up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021827"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Nebuchadnezzar was filled with rage, and his facial expression changed toward Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego. He gave the command to heat the furnace seven times hotter than it was usually heated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021828"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He ordered the strongest and most capable soldiers in his army to seize Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, bind them securely, and throw them into the blazing furnace of fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021829"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then these men were tied up in their robes, trousers, turbans, and all their other clothing, and were thrown into the midst of the blazing fiery furnace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021830"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because the king’s command was strict and the furnace was heated to an extreme degree, the flames of the fire killed the men who had taken hold of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021831"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then these three men—Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego—fell, still bound, into the midst of the blazing fiery furnace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021832"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then King Nebuchadnezzar was utterly astonished. He quickly stood up and said to his advisors, "Did we not throw three men, bound, into the midst of the fire?" They replied to the king, "It is true, O king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021833"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "Look! I see four men, unbound and walking around in the midst of the fire, completely unharmed. And the appearance of the fourth is like that of a divine being."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021834"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Nebuchadnezzar approached the entrance of the blazing furnace and called out, saying, "Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, servants of the Most High God, come out and come here!" So Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego emerged from the midst of the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021835"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The officials, governors, military commanders, and the king’s advisors assembled and observed these men. They saw that the fire had no effect on their bodies—not a single hair on their heads was singed, their clothing remained unchanged, and there was no scent of fire on them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021836"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Nebuchadnezzar declared, "Praise be to the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who sent His angel and rescued His servants who put their trust in Him. They defied the king’s command and were willing to give up their lives rather than serve or worship any god except their own God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021837"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I hereby issue a decree: Any people, nation, or language that speaks anything disrespectful or false against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego shall be torn limb from limb, and their homes shall be reduced to rubble. For there is no other god who can deliver in such a manner as this.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100021838"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king elevated Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego to positions of honor and authority within the province of Babylon.</span></p>






</body></html>