<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\syniom.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d85e2248-a8c6-046a-43ad-ab387cfa7980" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the LORD said to me, "Cut out two stone tablets like the first ones, and come up to me on the mountain. Also, make a wooden ark for yourself."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will inscribe on the new tablets the same words that were on the first tablets, which you shattered. Then you are to place them in the ark.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I constructed an ark from acacia wood and carved two stone tablets similar to the first ones. Then, carrying the two tablets in my hands, I ascended the mountain.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He inscribed on the tablets, just as before, the Ten Commandments that the LORD had spoken to you on the mountain from the midst of the fire on the day of the gathering. Then the LORD gave them to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I turned and descended from the mountain, then placed the tablets into the ark that I had made. They remain there, just as the LORD commanded me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites set out from Beeroth Bene-Jaakan and traveled to Moserah. There, Aaron died and was buried. His son Eleazar then took his place and served as priest in his stead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They traveled from there to Gudgodah, and then from Gudgodah to Jotbath, a land with abundant streams of water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the LORD set apart the tribe of Levi to carry the ark of the covenant of the LORD, to stand in the LORD's presence to serve Him, and to pronounce blessings in His name, as they continue to do to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, Levi has no portion or inheritance among his brothers; the LORD himself is his inheritance, just as the LORD your God promised him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I remained on the mountain for forty days and forty nights, just as I had done the first time. The Lord listened to me once again, and He chose not to destroy you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to me, "Get up and lead the people on their journey, so they may enter and take possession of the land that I swore to their ancestors I would give to them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, Israel, what does the LORD your God ask of you, except to revere the LORD your God, to live according to all His ways, to love Him, and to serve the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your being?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To obey the commandments of the LORD and His decrees, which I am instructing you today for your benefit?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the heavens and the highest heavens belong to the LORD your God, as does the earth and everything in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD alone took pleasure in your ancestors, loving them deeply. He chose their descendants after them—specifically you—above all other nations, as is evident to this day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, remove the hardness from your heart and no longer be stubborn and resistant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD your God is the supreme God over all gods and the sovereign Lord over all lords. He is the great, mighty, and awe-inspiring God, who shows no partiality and accepts no bribes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He upholds the cause of the fatherless and the widow, and shows love to the foreigner by providing them with food and clothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must show love to the foreigner, for you yourselves were foreigners in the land of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must revere the LORD your God; you are to serve Him, remain devoted to Him, and make your oaths in His name.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He is your source of praise, and He is your God, who has accomplished for you these great and awe-inspiring deeds that your own eyes have witnessed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your ancestors went down to Egypt with seventy people, and now the LORD your God has made you as numerous as the stars in the sky.</span></p>






</body></html>