<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Samuel Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\syobcu.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:bd9d1c74-d754-c41d-67aa-52d6c4eec513" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Samuel Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008428"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As David had just passed the crest of the hill, Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth, came to meet him. Ziba had brought two donkeys equipped with saddles, carrying two hundred loaves of bread, a hundred clusters of raisins, a hundred portions of summer fruit, and a skin of wine.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008429"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king asked Ziba, "What is the meaning of all this?" Ziba replied, "The donkeys are for the king’s household to ride on, the bread and summer fruit are for the young men to eat, and the wine is for those who grow weary in the wilderness to drink and refresh themselves."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008430"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king asked, "And where is your master’s son?" Ziba replied to the king, "He is staying in Jerusalem, for he said, 'Today the house of Israel will restore to me the kingdom of my father.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008431"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the king said to Ziba, "Everything that belonged to Mephibosheth is now yours." Ziba replied, "I humbly ask that I may continue to find favor in your sight, my lord the king."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008432"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When King David arrived at Bahurim, a man from the family of Saul’s household came out to meet him. His name was Shimei, the son of Gera. As he approached, he continuously hurled curses at David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008433"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He hurled stones at David and at all the servants of King David, while all the people and the mighty warriors stood on his right and left sides.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008434"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And this is what Shimei said as he cursed: "Get out, get out, you murderer, you wicked man!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008435"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord has brought back upon you all the bloodshed of the house of Saul, whose throne you now occupy. The Lord has handed the kingdom over to your son Absalom. Now you are caught in your own trouble because you are a man of bloodshed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008436"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, said to the king, "Why should this worthless man curse my lord the king? Please, let me go over and cut off his head."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008437"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king replied, "What concern is this of yours, you sons of Zeruiah? If he is cursing me, it is because the LORD has told him, 'Curse David.' Who then can question him and say, 'Why are you doing this?'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008438"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Abishai and all his servants, "Look, my own son, who came from my own body, is seeking my life. How much more could this Benjamite do the same? Leave him alone and let him curse, for the LORD has allowed it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008439"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Perhaps the LORD will take notice of my suffering, and in response to the cursing I endure today, He will repay me with good.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008440"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As David and his men traveled along the road, Shimei walked on the hillside opposite them, hurling curses as he went. He threw stones at David and his men and flung dust into the air.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008441"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king, along with all the people who were with him, arrived exhausted, and they rested and regained their strength there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008442"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Absalom, along with all the men of Israel who followed him, arrived in Jerusalem, accompanied by Ahithophel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008443"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Hushai the Archite, who was David’s friend, came to Absalom, Hushai said to Absalom, “Long live the king! Long live the king!”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008444"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Absalom said to Hushai, "Is this how you show loyalty to your friend? Why didn’t you go with him?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008445"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Hushai replied to Absalom, "No, the one whom the LORD chooses, along with this people and all the men of Israel—that is the one I will support, and with him I will remain."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008446"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And once more, whom should I serve? Should I not serve in the presence of his son? Just as I served in your father’s presence, so I will serve in your presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008447"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Absalom said to Ahithophel, "Advise us on what we should do."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008448"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahithophel said to Absalom, "Go and sleep with your father's concubines, whom he left to take care of the palace. When all Israel hears that you have made yourself repulsive to your father, the resolve of everyone who supports you will be strengthened."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008449"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they set up a tent for Absalom on the roof of the palace, and Absalom went in and slept with his father’s concubines in full view of all Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100008450"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The advice that Ahithophel gave in those days was regarded as if one had sought guidance from the divine oracle. Such was the weight and authority of all the counsel Ahithophel offered, both to David and to Absalom.</span></p>






</body></html>