<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\syt3sj.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:99aebe3a-7ecc-5586-8a4f-27e692946f4a" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 21</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010121"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he ruled for fifty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Hephzibah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010122"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed what was evil in the sight of the LORD, following the detestable practices of the nations that the LORD had driven out before the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010123"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He rebuilt the high places that his father Hezekiah had demolished; he erected altars for Baal and made a sacred pole, just as Ahab, king of Israel, had done. He also worshiped and served all the heavenly host.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010124"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed altars within the house of the LORD, even though the LORD had declared, "In Jerusalem I will establish my name."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010125"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed altars dedicated to all the heavenly bodies in both courtyards of the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010126"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He caused his son to pass through the fire, practiced divination, sought omens, and consulted mediums and spiritists. He committed great evil in the sight of the LORD, provoking Him to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010127"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He placed a carved image of Asherah, which he had made, in the house of the Lord, the very house about which the Lord had said to David and to Solomon his son, "In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I will establish my name forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010128"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will no longer allow the people of Israel to be driven out of the land I gave to their ancestors, provided they diligently obey everything I have commanded them and faithfully follow all the laws that my servant Moses gave to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they did not listen, and Manasseh led them astray, causing them to commit even greater evil than the nations whom the LORD had destroyed before the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD communicated through his servants, the prophets, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because Manasseh, king of Judah, has committed these detestable acts and has acted more wickedly than all the Amorites who lived before him, he has also led Judah into sin by causing them to worship his idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: Listen carefully, I am about to bring such disaster upon Jerusalem and Judah that anyone who hears of it will be utterly shocked and horrified.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will measure Jerusalem with the same standard I used for Samaria and the same plumb line I applied to the house of Ahab. I will cleanse Jerusalem as one cleans a dish—thoroughly scrubbing it and then turning it upside down to dry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will abandon the remaining portion of my inheritance and hand them over to their enemies. They will become plunder and spoil for all their foes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because they have done what is evil in my eyes and have continually provoked me to anger, from the day their ancestors came out of Egypt up to this very day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, Manasseh spilled a great amount of innocent blood, so much that he filled Jerusalem from one end to the other. In addition to this, he led Judah into sin by committing what was evil in the sight of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Manasseh, all that he accomplished, and the sins he committed—are they not recorded in the historical records of the kings of Judah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Manasseh died and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza. His son Amon succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amon was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he ruled for two years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Meshullemeth, the daughter of Haruz from Jotbah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He committed actions that were wicked in the eyes of the LORD, following the same path of wrongdoing as his father Manasseh had done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He followed the same path as his father, serving the same idols his father had served and bowing down in worship to them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He abandoned the LORD, the God of his ancestors, and did not follow the ways of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The officials of Amon plotted against him and killed the king in his own palace.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of the land killed all those who had conspired against King Amon. Then, the people of the land appointed his son Josiah as king in his place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Amon and all that he accomplished, are they not recorded in the historical records of the kings of Judah?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100010146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He was buried in his tomb in the garden of Uzza, and his son Josiah became king in his place.</span></p>






</body></html>