<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Jeremiah Chapter 42</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sytk25.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9b38206b-3ee8-9cb9-b287-ade61895af90" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Jeremiah Chapter 42</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019977"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then all the commanders of the military forces, along with Johanan son of Kareah, Jezaniah son of Hoshaiah, and all the people—from the least significant to the most prominent—approached.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said to the prophet Jeremiah, “Please, we ask that our plea be received favorably before you. Pray to the LORD your God on behalf of all of us who remain, for only a few of us are left out of many, as you can see with your own eyes.”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that the LORD your God may guide us in the path we should follow and show us what we ought to do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the prophet Jeremiah said to them, "I have heard your request. Listen, I will pray to the LORD your God as you have asked, and whatever answer the LORD gives you, I will faithfully declare it to you. I will not withhold anything from you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they said to Jeremiah, "May the LORD be a true and faithful witness against us if we do not act in accordance with everything that the LORD your God sends you to tell us."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whether it seems favorable or unfavorable to us, we will obey the voice of the LORD our God, to whom we are sending you, so that it may go well with us when we heed the voice of the LORD our God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After ten days had passed, the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he summoned Johanan, the son of Kareah, along with all the military commanders who were with him, and all the people, from the least significant to the most prominent.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says—the one to whom you sent me to present your plea before Him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you choose to remain in this land, I will establish you and not tear you down; I will plant you and not uproot you. For I regret the harm I have brought upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not fear the king of Babylon, whom you dread; do not be afraid of him, declares the LORD, for I am with you to rescue you and to deliver you from his power.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will show you kindness, so that he may also show you mercy and bring you back to your own land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you say, "We will not remain in this land, nor will we heed the voice of the LORD your God,"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They said, "No, we will go to the land of Egypt, where we will not see war, nor hear the sound of the battle trumpet, nor suffer from hunger for bread. There we will settle and live."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, listen to the word of the LORD, you who remain in Judah. This is what the LORD of Hosts, the God of Israel, says: If you are fully determined to go to Egypt and settle there to live,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen: the sword you fear will overtake you in the land of Egypt, and the famine you dread will pursue you there in Egypt. And there, in Egypt, you will die.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what will happen to all those who are determined to go to Egypt to live there: they will die by the sword, by famine, and by plague. Not one of them will survive or escape the disaster that I will bring upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For this is what the LORD of Hosts, the God of Israel, says: Just as my anger and wrath were poured out on the people of Jerusalem, so will my wrath be poured out on you when you go to Egypt. You will become an object of horror, a disgrace, a curse, and a reproach. And you will never see this place again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has declared concerning you, O remnant of Judah: Do not go into Egypt. Be fully aware that I have warned you today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You were deceitful in your hearts when you sent me to the LORD your God, saying, "Pray to the LORD our God on our behalf, and whatever the LORD our God tells you, declare it to us, and we will do it."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today I have made this declaration to you, but you have not listened to the voice of the LORD your God, nor have you followed anything He has sent me to tell you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100019998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now, therefore, understand with certainty that you will die by the sword, by famine, and by plague in the place where you desire to go and settle.</span></p>






</body></html>