<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 32</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\syu8xf.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a8ccf4fd-b8b6-fdb3-06d8-b7ad37981a85" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 32</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Reuben and the descendants of Gad possessed an exceedingly large number of livestock. When they observed the region of Jazer and the land of Gilead, they saw that the area was indeed well-suited for raising livestock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Gad and the descendants of Reuben approached Moses, Eleazar the priest, and the leaders of the community, and said:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ataroth, Dibon, Jazer, Nimrah, Heshbon, Elealeh, Shebam, Nebo, and Beon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The land that the LORD struck down before the assembly of Israel is a land suitable for livestock, and your servants have livestock.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, they said, "If we have found favor in your sight, let this land be given to your servants as our possession, and do not make us cross the Jordan."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to the people of Gad and the people of Reuben, "Will your fellow Israelites go out to fight in the war while you stay here?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Why are you discouraging the hearts of the Israelites from crossing into the land that the LORD has given to them?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what your ancestors did when I sent them from Kadesh-barnea to explore the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they went up to the Valley of Eshcol and saw the land, they caused the hearts of the Israelites to lose courage, so that they no longer wanted to enter the land that the LORD had given them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that very moment, the LORD's anger burned, and He swore, declaring,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Certainly, none of the men who came out of Egypt, from twenty years old and above, will see the land I promised with an oath to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, because they have not fully committed themselves to me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Except for Caleb, the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite, and Joshua, the son of Nun, because they have fully devoted themselves to following the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord’s anger burned against Israel, and He caused them to wander in the wilderness for forty years, until the entire generation that had acted wickedly in His sight had perished.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And now, you have risen up in place of your ancestors, a generation of sinful people, only to increase the LORD’s fierce anger against Israel even more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For if you turn away from following Him, He will once again abandon them in the wilderness, and you will bring about the ruin of all these people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They approached him and said, "We will build enclosures here for our livestock and towns for our children."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, we ourselves will march fully armed ahead of the Israelites until we have brought them to their promised land. Meanwhile, our children will remain in the fortified cities for their safety, due to the presence of the current inhabitants of the land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We will not return to our homes until the people of Israel have each received their allotted inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We will not receive our inheritance with them on the other side of the Jordan or beyond it, because our inheritance has been allotted to us here on the eastern side of the Jordan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to them, "If you are willing to do this—if you will arm yourselves and go before the LORD to fight in the war—"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All of you must cross the Jordan fully armed before the LORD, and you must continue until He has driven out His enemies from His presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once the land is brought under the authority of the LORD, then afterward you may return and be free from guilt before the LORD and before Israel. This land will then be your rightful possession under the LORD's approval.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if you refuse to act in this way, you will be sinning against the LORD. Be certain of this: your sin will be exposed and bring consequences upon you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Construct cities for your children and enclosures for your flocks, and fulfill what you have promised.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Gad and the descendants of Reuben spoke to Moses, saying, "We, your servants, will do as you, our lord, have commanded."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Our children, our wives, our flocks, and all our livestock will remain in the cities of Gilead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, your servants will cross over, each man equipped for battle, ready to fight before the LORD, just as my lord has said.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, Moses gave instructions concerning them to Eleazar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the leaders of the ancestral families of the tribes of the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to them, "If the people of Gad and the people of Reuben cross over the Jordan with you, every man ready for battle in the presence of the LORD, and the land is conquered before you, then you must give them the land of Gilead as their possession."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if they refuse to cross over with you armed for battle, they must still settle among you in the land of Canaan.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Gad and the descendants of Reuben responded, saying, "What the LORD has commanded your servants, we will do."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We will cross over, fully armed, before the LORD into the land of Canaan, so that our inheritance on this side of the Jordan may remain ours.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses granted to them—specifically to the descendants of Gad, the descendants of Reuben, and half the tribe of Manasseh, the son of Joseph—the territory of Sihon, king of the Amorites, and the territory of Og, king of Bashan. This included the land and its cities within their borders, along with the surrounding towns throughout the region.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Gad built Dibon, Ataroth, and Aroer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Atroth, Shophan, Jaazer, and Jogbehah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Beth-nimrah and Beth-haran, fortified cities, along with sheepfolds.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004756"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Reuben rebuilt Heshbon, Elealeh, and Kirjathaim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004757"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Nebo, and Baal-meon (their names having been changed), and Shibmah: they gave new names to the cities they had built.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004758"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Machir, the son of Manasseh, went to Gilead, captured it, and drove out the Amorites who were living there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004759"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses assigned the region of Gilead to Machir, the son of Manasseh, and he settled there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004760"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jair, the son of Manasseh, went and captured its small villages, and he named them Havoth-jair.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004761"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nobah went and captured Kenath along with its surrounding villages, and he named it Nobah after himself.</span></p>






</body></html>