<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Kings Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sywvtf.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:b4c7ecaf-1dba-5022-5d06-e93572ff02d9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Kings Chapter 5</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Naaman, the commander of the army of the king of Aram, was a highly esteemed and respected man in the presence of his master, because through him the LORD had granted victory to Aram. He was a valiant and mighty warrior, but he suffered from leprosy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Arameans had raided in small bands and had taken captive a young girl from the land of Israel. She became a servant to Naaman’s wife.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said to her mistress, "If only my master were with the prophet who is in Samaria! He could heal him of his leprosy."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then one of them went in and informed his master, saying, "This is what the young woman from the land of Israel has said."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king of Syria said, "Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel." So the man departed, taking with him ten talents of silver, six thousand pieces of gold, and ten sets of clothing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He delivered the letter to the king of Israel, which read: "When this letter reaches you, know that I have sent my servant Naaman to you, so that you may heal him of his leprosy."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his clothes and said, "Am I God, with the power to give life or take it away, that this man sends someone to me to cure a man of his leprosy? Think about it and see how he is trying to pick a fight with me!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Elisha, the man of God, heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, he sent a message to the king, saying, "Why have you torn your clothes? Let the man come to me now, and he will know that there is a prophet in Israel."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Naaman arrived with his horses and chariot and stood at the entrance of Elisha’s house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009658"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elisha sent a messenger to him with this instruction: "Go and wash yourself in the Jordan River seven times. Your skin will be restored, and you will be made clean."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009659"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Naaman became angry and left, saying, "I expected that he would surely come out to me, stand before me, call on the name of the LORD his God, wave his hand over the affected area, and heal the leprosy."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009660"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Are not the Abana and Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? Could I not wash in them and be made clean?" With that, he turned and left in a furious rage.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009661"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His servants approached him and said, "Father, if the prophet had told you to do something difficult, wouldn’t you have done it? How much more, then, when he simply tells you, ‘Wash, and you will be clean’?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009662"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he went down and immersed himself seven times in the Jordan River, as the man of God had instructed. His skin was restored, becoming as healthy as the skin of a young child, and he was cleansed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009663"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he went back to the man of God, accompanied by all his attendants, and stood before him. He said, "Now I truly know that there is no God in all the earth except in Israel. So please, accept a gift from your servant."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009664"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Elisha replied, "As surely as the LORD lives, the one before whom I stand, I will not accept anything." Naaman pressed him to take it, but he firmly refused.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009665"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Naaman then said, "Please allow your servant to take with him a load of earth, as much as two mules can carry. For from now on, your servant will no longer offer burnt offerings or sacrifices to any other gods, but only to the LORD."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009666"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this matter, may the LORD forgive your servant: when my master goes into the temple of Rimmon to worship there, and he leans on my arm, and I bow down in the temple of Rimmon—when I bow down in the temple of Rimmon, may the LORD forgive your servant for this act.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009667"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to him, "Go in peace." So he left him and traveled a short distance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009668"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha, the man of God, thought to himself, "Look, my master has let Naaman, this Aramean, go without accepting what he brought. As surely as the LORD lives, I will run after him and get something from him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009669"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Gehazi went after Naaman. When Naaman noticed someone running after him, he stepped down from his chariot to meet him and asked, "Is everything all right?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009670"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "Everything is fine. My master has sent me with a message, saying, 'Just now, two young men from the company of the prophets have come to me from the hill country of Ephraim. Please give them a talent of silver and two sets of clothing.'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009671"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Naaman said, "Please accept two talents of silver." He insisted and prepared two bags, each containing a talent of silver, along with two sets of clothing. He gave them to two of his servants, who carried them ahead of him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009672"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrived at the tower, he took the items from their hands and placed them in the house. Then he allowed the men to leave, and they went on their way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009673"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he went in and stood before his master. Elisha said to him, "Where have you been, Gehazi?" He replied, "Your servant has not gone anywhere."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009674"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Elisha said to him, "Did my heart not go with you when the man turned back from his chariot to meet you? Is this the time to accept money, clothing, olive groves, vineyards, flocks, herds, male servants, or female servants?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009675"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the leprosy of Naaman will cling to you and to your descendants forever.” And he left Elisha’s presence afflicted with leprosy, his skin as white as snow.</span></p>






</body></html>