<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sz00wx.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:9ab2e573-5d2e-2fdf-52ed-48cb961a7682" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005978"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the Israelites acted unfaithfully regarding the things devoted to destruction. Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, from the tribe of Judah, took some of the devoted items. As a result, the anger of the LORD burned against the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005979"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is located near Beth-aven, east of Bethel. He instructed them, saying, “Go and scout out the land.” So the men went and surveyed Ai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005980"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They returned to Joshua and said to him, "Do not send all the people to attack Ai. Instead, let about two or three thousand men go up and strike the city. There is no need to burden the entire army, for the people of Ai are few in number."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005981"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So about three thousand men from the people went up there, but they were routed and fled before the men of Ai.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005982"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Ai struck down about thirty-six of them and pursued them from the city gate all the way to Shebarim, attacking them as they fled downhill. As a result, the hearts of the people melted with fear and became like water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005983"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua tore his clothes, fell face down on the ground before the ark of the LORD, and remained there until evening—he and the elders of Israel. They also sprinkled dust on their heads as a sign of mourning and humility.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005984"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua cried out, "Oh, Lord God, why have you brought this people across the Jordan at all, only to hand us over to the Amorites and let them destroy us? If only we had been satisfied and stayed on the other side of the Jordan!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005985"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">O Lord, what can I say when Israel turns and flees from their enemies?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005986"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the Canaanites and all the people living in the land will hear about it, and they will surround us and completely destroy us, wiping out our name from the earth. And what will you do for the sake of your great name?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005987"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Joshua, "Get up! Why are you lying face down like this?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005988"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Israel has sinned and violated the covenant I established with them. They have taken what was devoted to destruction, stolen it, acted deceitfully, and hidden it among their own possessions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005989"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the people of Israel could not withstand their enemies but turned and fled before them, because they had brought a curse upon themselves. I will no longer be with you unless you remove the accursed thing from your midst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005990"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Rise up, consecrate the people, and instruct them, saying, "Prepare yourselves for tomorrow by making yourselves holy, for this is what the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: There is something devoted to destruction in your midst, O Israel. You will not be able to stand against your enemies until you remove this forbidden thing from among you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005991"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the morning, you will be presented according to your tribes. The tribe that the LORD identifies will come forward by its families; the family that the LORD selects will come forward by its households; and the household that the LORD chooses will come forward one person at a time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005992"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If anyone is found with the things devoted to destruction, they shall be burned with fire—both the person and all that belongs to them—because they have violated the covenant of the LORD and committed a disgraceful act in Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005993"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua got up early in the morning and gathered the people of Israel by their tribes. The tribe of Judah was chosen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005994"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He brought forward the family of Judah, and then selected the family of the Zarhites. He brought the family of the Zarhites forward one by one, and Zabdi was chosen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005995"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua then brought forward each member of the tribe of Judah, one by one, for examination. Eventually, Achan was identified—the son of Carmi, grandson of Zabdi, and descendant of Zerah, from the tribe of Judah. He was the one who had been found guilty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005996"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua said to Achan, "My son, I urge you, give honor to the LORD, the God of Israel, and confess to Him. Tell me now what you have done; do not hide it from me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005997"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Achan replied to Joshua, saying, "It is true—I have sinned against the LORD, the God of Israel. This is what I did: [he then explained his actions]."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005998"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I saw among the plunder a beautiful Babylonian robe, two hundred shekels of silver, and a gold bar weighing fifty shekels, I desired them and took them. Now they are hidden in the ground inside my tent, with the silver buried beneath it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005999"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Joshua sent messengers, and they hurried to the tent. There they found it hidden inside the tent, with the silver placed beneath it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006000"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They brought them out from inside the tent and presented them to Joshua and all the Israelites, then laid them out before the presence of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006001"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua, along with all the people of Israel, took Achan, the son of Zerah, as well as the silver, the garment, the gold bar, his sons, his daughters, his oxen, his donkeys, his sheep, his tent, and everything he owned. They brought them all to the Valley of Achor.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006002"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua said, "Why have you brought trouble upon us? The Lord will bring trouble upon you this day." Then all Israel stoned him to death, and afterward they burned his body with fire, following the execution by stoning.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006003"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They piled up a large heap of stones over him, which remains to this day. Then the LORD turned away from the intensity of His anger. Because of this, that place has been called the Valley of Achor, and it is known by that name to this day.</span></p>






</body></html>