<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 30</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sz13pt.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:be7e6003-b847-5c33-03bc-a9566bc8825c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 30</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005710"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And when all these things happen to you—both the blessings and the curses that I have presented before you—and you reflect on them while living among the nations where the LORD your God has scattered you,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005711"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will return to the LORD your God and listen to his voice, obeying everything I am commanding you today—you and your children—with all your heart and with all your soul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005712"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the LORD your God will restore your fortunes and show you compassion. He will gather you back from all the nations where the LORD your God has scattered you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005713"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If any of your people are scattered to the farthest reaches of the heavens, from there the LORD your God will gather you, and from there He will bring you back.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005714"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD your God will bring you into the land that your ancestors once owned, and you will take possession of it. He will bless you and increase your numbers even more than He did for your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005715"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD your God will transform your heart and the hearts of your descendants, removing all that hinders you, so that you may love the LORD your God completely—with all your heart and with all your soul—and in doing so, you will truly live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005716"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD your God will bring all these curses upon your enemies and upon those who hate you, who have persecuted you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005717"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will turn back and heed the voice of the LORD, carrying out all His commandments that I am giving you today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005718"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD your God will abundantly bless all the work of your hands, the children of your family, the offspring of your livestock, and the produce of your land, for your benefit. For the LORD will once again delight in bringing you prosperity, just as He took joy in blessing your ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005719"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you listen to the voice of the LORD your God, obeying His commandments and decrees that are written in this book of the law, and if you return to the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005720"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The command I am giving you today is not beyond your understanding or out of your reach.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message is not in heaven, so that you would need to ask, "Who will ascend to heaven for us and bring it down to us, so that we may hear it and obey it?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message is not far off, beyond the sea, so that you would need to say, “Who will cross the sea for us to bring it to us, so that we may hear it and obey it?”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The message is very near to you—it is in your mouth and in your heart, so that you can carry it out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Behold, today I have placed before you life and prosperity, death and adversity.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today, I am commanding you to love the LORD your God, to follow His ways, and to obey His commandments, statutes, and judgments, so that you may live and prosper. The LORD your God will bless you in the land you are entering to take possession of it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if your heart turns away, so that you refuse to listen, and you are led astray to worship and serve other gods,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I declare to you today that you will certainly perish and will not live long in the land you are crossing the Jordan to enter and possess.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I summon heaven and earth as witnesses today against you: I have placed before you life and death, blessing and curse. Therefore, choose life, so that you and your descendants may live.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that you may love the LORD your God, obey His voice, and hold fast to Him—for He is your life and the source of your days—and so that you may live in the land the LORD swore to your ancestors, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give to them.</span></p>






</body></html>