<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Amos Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sz3t6y.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:7bf464b7-fde1-592b-dddc-71858525cca3" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Amos Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen to this message, you wealthy women of Samaria, who live in luxury on the mountain, you who exploit the poor and crush the needy, who say to your husbands, "Bring us more, so we can indulge ourselves."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Lord GOD has sworn by His holiness: Behold, the days are coming upon you when He will take you away as if with hooks, and your descendants as if with fishhooks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You will go out through the breaches in the walls, each of you straight ahead, and you will be driven toward the palace, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Go to Bethel and sin; at Gilgal, increase your wrongdoing. Bring your sacrifices every morning and your tithes every three years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Present a thank offering with leavened bread, and openly declare and announce your voluntary gifts; for this is what pleases you, O people of Israel, says the Lord GOD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD says, "I have also caused you to experience hunger in all your cities and a lack of bread in all your towns, yet you have not returned to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have also withheld the rain from you when there were still three months until the harvest. I made it rain on one city, but not on another; one field received rain, while the field that did not receive rain dried up and withered.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022419"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So two or three towns would go to one town to find water to drink, but they could not get enough to satisfy their thirst. Yet even after this, you still have not turned back to me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022420"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have struck you with scorching heat and mildew; when your gardens, vineyards, fig trees, and olive trees flourished, the locusts devoured them. Yet you have not returned to me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022421"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have sent plagues among you, just as I did in Egypt. I have struck down your young men with the sword and taken away your horses. I have made the foul stench of your camps rise to your nostrils. Yet, despite all this, you have not returned to me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022422"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have destroyed some of you, just as God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, and you were like a burning stick snatched from the flames. Yet, even after this, you have not turned back to me, declares the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022423"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, this is what I will do to you, O Israel: because I am about to act in this way against you, prepare yourself to encounter your God, O Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100022424"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Behold, the One who shapes the mountains and creates the wind, who reveals to humanity their innermost thoughts, who turns the dawn into darkness and treads upon the heights of the earth—the LORD, the God of all heavenly armies, is His name.</span></p>






</body></html>