<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Judges Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sz4t0a.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:88d4f928-ddbe-d47e-e0dd-3c6285b666df" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Judges Chapter 8</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006721"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The men of Ephraim confronted him, saying, "Why have you treated us this way by not calling us when you went to fight against the Midianites?" And they argued with him intensely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006722"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to them, "What have I accomplished now compared to what you have done? Is not the leftover harvest of Ephraim better than the full grape harvest of Abiezer?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006723"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">God has given into your hands the leaders of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb. What could I have accomplished compared to what you have done? When he said this, their anger toward him subsided.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006724"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon and the three hundred men with him reached the Jordan River and crossed over, exhausted yet still pursuing their enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006725"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to the men of Succoth, "Please provide loaves of bread for the people who are with me, for they are exhausted. I am pursuing Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006726"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The leaders of Succoth replied, "Do you already have Zebah and Zalmunna in your possession, that we should provide food for your troops?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006727"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon replied, "When the LORD has handed Zebah and Zalmunna over to me, I will punish you by tearing your flesh with the thorns and briers of the wilderness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006728"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he went up from there to Penuel and spoke to them in the same way. But the men of Penuel responded to him just as the men of Succoth had done.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006729"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also spoke to the people of Penuel, saying, "When I return in peace, I will tear down this tower."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006730"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor with their armies, about fifteen thousand men remaining from the entire force of the eastern peoples. This was all that was left, for one hundred and twenty thousand men who carried swords had fallen in battle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006731"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon advanced along the route of those who lived in tents east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and he attacked the enemy camp. The camp was caught off guard because they felt secure and unprepared.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006732"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Zebah and Zalmunna fled, he pursued them and captured the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and completely routed their entire army.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006733"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon, the son of Joash, returned from the battle before sunrise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006734"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they captured a young man from Succoth and questioned him. He provided them with a list of the leaders and elders of Succoth, numbering seventy-seven men in total.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006735"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon approached the men of Succoth and said, “Here are Zebah and Zalmunna, the ones about whom you taunted me, saying, ‘Do you already have Zebah and Zalmunna in your grasp that we should give bread to your exhausted men?’”</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006736"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He gathered the leaders of the city, along with thorns and briers from the wilderness, and used them to discipline the men of Succoth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006737"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He demolished the tower of Penuel and killed the men of the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006738"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then he said to Zebah and Zalmunna, "What kind of men were those you killed at Tabor?" They replied, "They were just like you; each one had the appearance of a king's son."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006739"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied, "They were my brothers, the sons of my own mother. As surely as the LORD lives, if you had spared their lives, I would not have killed you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006740"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he said to Jether, his firstborn son, "Get up and kill them." But the young man did not draw his sword, for he was afraid because he was still just a youth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006741"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, "Rise up and kill us yourself, for as a man is, so is his strength." So Gideon rose and killed Zebah and Zalmunna, and he took the crescent-shaped ornaments that were on their camels' necks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006742"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the men of Israel said to Gideon, "You must rule over us—you, your son, and your grandson as well—for you have rescued us from the power of Midian."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006743"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon replied to them, "I will not govern over you, nor will my son govern over you. The LORD alone will govern over you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006744"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon said to them, "I have a request to make of you: please give me each man an earring from his plunder." (They had gold earrings because they were Ishmaelites.)</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006745"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied, "We will gladly give them." So they spread out a garment, and each man threw into it the earrings from his plunder.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006746"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The total weight of the golden earrings he requested amounted to one thousand seven hundred shekels of gold. This was in addition to the ornaments, pendants, and purple garments worn by the kings of Midian, as well as the chains that adorned their camels' necks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006747"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon took the gold and made an ephod from it, placing it in his city, Ophrah. However, all Israel turned to idolatry by worshiping it, and it became a trap for Gideon and his household.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006748"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In this way, Midian was brought under the control of the Israelites, and they no longer posed a threat. The land enjoyed peace for forty years during Gideon's lifetime.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006749"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Jerubbaal, the son of Joash, returned and settled in his own home.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006750"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon had seventy sons who were his own descendants, for he had many wives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006751"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And his concubine, who lived in Shechem, also bore him a son, whom he named Abimelech.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006752"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gideon, the son of Joash, died at a ripe old age and was buried in the tomb of his father Joash in Ophrah, the town of the Abiezrites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006753"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Gideon died, the Israelites turned away from God once again and began to worship the Baals. They made Baal-Berith their god and abandoned the Lord.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006754"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Israel forgot the LORD their God, who had rescued them from the power of all their enemies on every side.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100006755"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They did not show kindness to the family of Jerubbaal, that is, Gideon, in return for all the good he had done for Israel.</span></p>






</body></html>