<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 58</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sz5cmh.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:3a14640d-6d62-b83f-a440-6cb7559481e9" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 58</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018788"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Shout loudly, do not hold back! Raise your voice like a trumpet and declare to my people their rebellion, and to the house of Jacob their sins.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018789"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Yet they seek me every day and claim to take pleasure in understanding my ways, like a nation that practices righteousness and does not abandon the decrees of their God. They inquire of me about just laws and express delight in drawing near to God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018790"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Why have we fasted," they say, "and you do not see it? Why have we humbled ourselves, and you take no notice?" Look, on the day of your fasting, you pursue your own interests and exploit all your workers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018791"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: when you fast, it is for quarreling and strife, and to strike others with cruel and wicked actions. This is not the kind of fasting I desire—not as you do it today, merely to make your voices heard in loud complaint.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018792"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is this the kind of fast I have chosen—merely a day for people to humble themselves? Is it only about bowing your head like a reed and lying down in sackcloth and ashes? Is that what you call a fast, a day acceptable to the LORD?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018793"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Is this not the kind of fasting I have chosen: to release the chains of injustice, to untie the cords of oppression, to set the exploited free, and to break every yoke of bondage?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018794"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Does it not mean sharing your food with the hungry, bringing the poor and homeless into your home? When you see someone without clothing, should you not clothe them? And should you not refuse to help your own family when they are in need?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018795"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then your light will shine forth like the dawn, and your healing will quickly appear; your righteousness will go before you, and the glory of the LORD will be your rear guard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018796"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you will call out, and the LORD will answer; you will cry for help, and He will say, “Here I am.” If you remove from among you the yoke of oppression, the pointing of fingers in scorn, and the speaking of empty, harmful words,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018797"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you offer your compassion to the hungry and provide relief to the oppressed, then your light will shine in the darkness, and your gloom will become like the brightness of midday.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will guide you continually, satisfy your soul even in times of drought, and strengthen your body. You will be like a well-watered garden, like a spring whose waters never run dry.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your descendants will rebuild the ancient ruins; you will restore the foundations laid by past generations. You will be known as the one who mends broken walls, the one who restores pathways for people to live in safety.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If you refrain from trampling the Sabbath, from pursuing your own interests on My holy day; if you call the Sabbath a delight and the Lord’s holy day honorable; and if you honor it by not going your own way, not seeking your own pleasure, nor speaking idle words—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you will find your joy in the LORD, and I will enable you to rise above life's challenges and prosper, granting you the blessings of the inheritance promised to Jacob, your ancestor. For the LORD himself has declared it.</span></p>






</body></html>