<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Matthew Chapter 13</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sz70ay.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cc8b70e4-9b32-91d4-1ccd-cdfd03c6a321" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Matthew Chapter 13</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023541"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that same day, Jesus left the house and went to sit by the shore of the sea.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023542"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Large crowds gathered around him, so he got into a boat and sat down to teach, while the entire crowd stood on the shore.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023543"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He taught them many things using parables, saying, "Listen carefully: A farmer went out to sow his seed."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023544"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As he was sowing, some seeds fell along the path, and the birds came and ate them up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023545"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some seeds fell on rocky ground, where there was little soil. They sprouted quickly because the soil was shallow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023546"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the sun rose, the plants were scorched by its heat; and since they had no deep roots, they withered and died.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023547"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Some of the seed fell among thorny plants, and when the thorns grew up, they crowded out and smothered the young plants.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023548"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But other seeds fell on good soil, and they produced a harvest—some yielding a hundred times as much, some sixty times, and some thirty times what was sown.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023549"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Let those who have the ability to understand, pay attention and comprehend."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023550"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The disciples approached Him and asked, "Why do You speak to them using parables?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023551"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied to them, "Because it has been granted to you to understand the hidden truths of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been granted."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023552"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For whoever has something, more will be given to them, and they will have an abundance. But whoever has nothing, even what little they have will be taken away from them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023553"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, I speak to them in parables: for though they see, they do not truly perceive; and though they hear, they do not truly listen, nor do they comprehend.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023554"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In them, the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says: "You will indeed hear, but you will not understand; you will indeed see, but you will not perceive."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023555"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The hearts of these people have become calloused, and their ears are hard of hearing. They have shut their eyes tightly, so that they might not see with their eyes, hear with their ears, understand with their hearts, and turn back to me—for if they did, I would heal them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023556"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But fortunate are your eyes, for they perceive; and your ears, for they listen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023557"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Truly, I tell you, many prophets and righteous people longed to see what you now see, but they did not see it, and to hear what you now hear, but they did not hear it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023558"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully to the meaning of the parable about the sower.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023559"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When someone hears the message about the kingdom but does not grasp its meaning, the evil one comes and snatches away what was sown in their heart. This is the person who received the seed along the path.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023560"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the one who received the seed in rocky soil is like the person who hears the message and immediately receives it with joy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023561"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, he has no deep root within himself and lasts only for a short time. When trouble or persecution arises because of the message, he quickly falls away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023562"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who received the seed among the thorns represents the person who hears the word, but the worries of this life and the lure of wealth choke the word, making it unfruitful.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023563"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who received the seed in good soil represents the person who hears the message and comprehends it. This individual produces a fruitful harvest, yielding a crop—some a hundred times what was sown, some sixty, and some thirty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023564"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jesus presented another parable to them, saying: "The kingdom of heaven can be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023565"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">While the people were sleeping, his enemy came and scattered weeds among the wheat, then went away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023566"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But when the grain sprouted and produced its crop, the weeds also became visible.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023567"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the servants of the landowner came and said to him, "Master, didn’t you sow good seed in your field? Where then did these weeds come from?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023568"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He said to them, "An enemy has done this." The servants replied, "Do you want us to go and pull them up?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023569"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he replied, "No, because while you are pulling up the weeds, you might also uproot the wheat along with them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023570"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Allow both to grow together until the harvest. At the time of harvest, I will instruct the reapers: First, gather the weeds and tie them into bundles to be burned. Then, gather the wheat and store it in my barn.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023571"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jesus presented another parable to them, saying: "The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed that a man took and planted in his field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023572"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Though it is the smallest of all seeds, when it grows, it becomes the largest of garden plants and turns into a tree, so that the birds of the sky come and make nests in its branches.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023573"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jesus told them another parable: "The kingdom of heaven is like yeast that a woman took and mixed into about three measures of flour until it worked its way through the entire batch."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023574"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jesus spoke all these things to the crowd using parables, and he did not address them without using a parable.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023575"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This happened to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, who said: "I will open my mouth to speak in parables; I will reveal hidden truths that have been concealed since the creation of the world."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023576"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jesus dismissed the crowd and went into the house. His disciples came to him and said, "Explain to us the meaning of the parable about the weeds in the field."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023577"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He replied to them, "The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023578"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The field represents the world; the good seed symbolizes the people who belong to the kingdom of God, while the weeds represent those who belong to the evil one.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023579"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who sowed them is the enemy, the devil; the harvest represents the culmination of this age; and the reapers are the angels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023580"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Just as the weeds are collected and burned in the fire, so it will be at the conclusion of this age.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023581"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will gather from his kingdom everything that causes sin and all who practice wickedness.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023582"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they will be thrown into a fiery furnace, where there will be weeping and grinding of teeth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023583"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the righteous will shine brightly like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. Whoever has the ability to understand, let them pay close attention.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023584"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field. When someone discovers it, they hide it again, and in their joy, they go and sell everything they own to buy that field.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023585"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023586"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he discovered a single pearl of exceptional value, he went and sold everything he owned in order to purchase it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023587"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Once more, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was thrown into the sea and gathered fish of every kind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023588"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the net was full, they pulled it to the shore, sat down, and sorted the fish. They collected the good ones into containers but threw the bad ones away.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023589"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is how it will be at the end of the age: the angels will go out and separate the wicked from the righteous.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023590"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they will be thrown into the fiery furnace, where there will be weeping and grinding of teeth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023591"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">51 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jesus asked them, "Have you understood all these things?" They replied to him, "Yes, Lord."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023592"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">52 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Jesus said to them, "Therefore, every teacher of the law who has been trained in the ways of the kingdom of heaven is like the owner of a house who brings out of his storeroom both new treasures and old."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023593"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">53 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After Jesus had finished teaching these parables, he left that place and went on his way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023594"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">54 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Jesus returned to his hometown, he taught the people in their synagogue, and they were utterly amazed. They said, "Where did this man get such wisdom and the power to perform these extraordinary deeds?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023595"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">55 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Isn’t this the carpenter’s son? Isn’t his mother named Mary, and aren’t his brothers James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023596"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">56 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And aren’t his sisters all here with us? So where did this man get all these things?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023597"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">57 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They took offense at him. But Jesus said to them, "A prophet is honored everywhere except in his own hometown and among his own family."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100023598"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">58 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And He did not perform many miracles there because of their lack of faith.</span></p>






</body></html>