<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\sz77jv.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:aa019313-b440-c824-7813-3aa576f715d6" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people of Jerusalem appointed Ahaziah, Jehoram’s youngest son, as king in his place, because the raiding party that had come with the Arabs to the camp had killed all the older sons. Thus, Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram, king of Judah, began to reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaziah was forty-two years old when he became king, and he ruled for one year in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Athaliah, the daughter of Omri.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also followed the practices of the house of Ahab, for his mother was his advisor, leading him to act wickedly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, he committed evil in the eyes of the LORD, following the ways of the house of Ahab, for they became his advisors after his father’s death, leading him to his ruin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also followed their advice and joined Jehoram, the son of Ahab, king of Israel, in going to war against Hazael, king of Syria, at Ramoth-gilead. However, the Syrians struck down Joram.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He went to Jezreel to recover from the wounds he had received at Ramah during his battle with Hazael, king of Syria. Meanwhile, Azariah, the son of Jehoram king of Judah, traveled to Jezreel to visit Jehoram, the son of Ahab, because he was ill.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahaziah's downfall was ordained by God when he went to visit Joram. For when he arrived, he joined Jehoram in going out to confront Jehu, the son of Nimshi, whom the LORD had anointed to destroy the house of Ahab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It happened that while Jehu was carrying out judgment against the house of Ahab, he came across the princes of Judah and the sons of Ahaziah’s brothers, who were serving Ahaziah. He killed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Jehu sought out Ahaziah, and they captured him (for he was hiding in Samaria) and brought him to Jehu. They executed him and then buried him, saying, "He is the son of Jehoshaphat, who sought the LORD with all his heart." Because of this, the house of Ahaziah no longer had the strength to maintain control over the kingdom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Athaliah, the mother of Ahaziah, saw that her son had died, she took action and killed all the royal descendants of the house of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Jehoshabeath, the daughter of King Jehoram, took Joash, the son of Ahaziah, and secretly rescued him from among the king’s sons who were being killed. She hid him and his nurse in a bedroom. Jehoshabeath, who was the sister of Ahaziah and the wife of Jehoiada the priest, concealed him from Athaliah, so that he was not put to death.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011657"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he remained hidden with them in the house of God for six years, while Athaliah ruled over the land.</span></p>






</body></html>