<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Exodus Chapter 30</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szdpyz.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:67d419f3-0186-f363-bc8c-b299d0700555" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Exodus Chapter 30</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall construct an altar for burning incense; make it out of acacia wood.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The length of it shall be one cubit, and its width one cubit; it shall be square, and its height shall be two cubits. Its horns shall be of one piece with it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall cover it entirely with pure gold—the top, the sides all around, and its horns. Additionally, you shall craft a gold molding around it as a border.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make two gold rings for it and attach them beneath its molding, on its two opposite sides. These rings will serve as holders for the poles used to carry it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall make the poles from acacia wood and cover them with gold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall place it in front of the veil that is near the ark of the covenant, in front of the mercy seat that is above the covenant, where I will meet with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Aaron shall burn fragrant incense on it every morning; when he tends to the lamps, he shall offer the incense upon it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Aaron lights the lamps in the evening, he shall also burn incense on it—a constant offering of incense before the LORD for all your generations to come.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not offer any unauthorized incense on it, nor any burnt offering, grain offering, or drink offering. Do not pour out any such offerings on it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron shall perform a ritual of atonement on its horns once a year, using the blood of the sin offering for atonement. He is to do this once every year throughout your generations, for it is most holy to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you take a census of the Israelites to count their number, each person must pay a ransom for their life to the LORD at the time of the counting. This is to ensure that no plague comes upon them when they are counted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each person who is counted among those registered must give this: half a shekel, according to the sanctuary shekel (a shekel is equal to twenty gerahs). This half-shekel is to be an offering to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Every person who is counted among those registered, from twenty years old and upward, must present an offering to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Both the wealthy and the poor must give the same amount—a half shekel—when presenting an offering to the LORD as a means of atonement for your lives. No one is to give more or less than this prescribed amount.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to collect the atonement money from the Israelites and designate it for the upkeep of the tent of meeting. This money will serve as a reminder before the LORD for the Israelites, ensuring that atonement is made for your lives.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall also make a basin of bronze, with a bronze base, for washing. Place it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron and his sons must wash their hands and feet there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When they enter the tent of meeting, they must wash with water so that they do not die. This also applies when they approach the altar to serve, to present an offering made by fire to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002404"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They must wash their hands and feet so that they do not die. This is to be a lasting ordinance for them, for Aaron and his descendants throughout all their generations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002405"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002406"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Gather for yourself the finest spices: take five hundred shekels of pure myrrh, two hundred and fifty shekels of fragrant cinnamon, and two hundred and fifty shekels of aromatic calamus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002407"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And use five hundred shekels of cassia, measured by the sanctuary shekel, along with a hin of olive oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002408"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall prepare it as a sacred anointing oil, a blended perfume crafted skillfully by a perfumer. It shall be a holy anointing oil.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002409"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall anoint the tent of meeting with it, along with the ark of the covenant testimony.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002410"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the table with all its utensils, the lampstand with its accessories, and the altar of incense.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002411"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And the altar for burnt offerings, along with all its utensils, and the basin with its stand.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002412"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall set them apart as sacred, so that they may be most holy. Anything that touches them will also become holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002413"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to anoint Aaron and his sons, setting them apart and dedicating them, so that they may serve me as priests.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002414"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You are to speak to the Israelites and say, "This will be a sacred anointing oil, set apart for me, for all your generations to come."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002415"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The oil must not be poured on the skin of any person, nor should you make any other mixture with the same ingredients. It is sacred, and it must remain sacred to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002416"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever makes anything similar to it, or puts any of it on someone who is not a priest, will be completely cut off from their community.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002417"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD said to Moses, "Gather for yourself fragrant spices: stacte, onycha, and galbanum—these fragrant spices along with pure frankincense. Each ingredient must be of equal weight."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002418"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall prepare it as a fragrant incense, skillfully blended like the work of a perfumer, thoroughly mixed, pure and sacred.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002419"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall grind some of it into a fine powder and place it in front of the covenant testimony in the tent of meeting, where I will meet with you. It shall be regarded as most holy to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002420"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning the incense you are to prepare, you must not make any for your own use with the same formula. It is to be considered sacred to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100002421"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever makes anything similar to it, to use it as incense, shall be completely cut off from their people.</span></p>






</body></html>