<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezekiel Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szge3l.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:60c2067c-b272-ede4-abcf-b41a048af496" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezekiel Chapter 10</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020635"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then I looked, and there, in the expanse above the heads of the cherubim, something like a sapphire stone appeared above them, resembling the form of a throne.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020636"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then He spoke to the man dressed in linen and said, "Go between the wheels beneath the cherubim, take burning coals from the space between them, and scatter them over the city." And he went in as I watched.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020637"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cherubim were positioned on the right side of the temple as the man entered, and the cloud filled the inner courtyard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020638"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the glory of the LORD rose from the cherub and positioned itself above the entrance of the temple. The temple was filled with the cloud, and the courtyard was radiant with the brilliance of the LORD's glory.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020639"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The sound of the cherubim's wings could be heard even in the outer courtyard, like the voice of the Almighty God when He speaks.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020640"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then it happened that when he gave the command to the man dressed in linen, saying, "Take fire from between the wheels, from between the cherubim," the man went in and stood beside the wheels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020641"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">One of the cherubim reached out its hand from among the cherubim to the fire that was between them, took some of it, and placed it into the hands of the man dressed in linen. He took it and went out.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020642"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And beneath the wings of the cherubim, the shape of a human hand became visible.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020643"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When I looked, I saw four wheels beside the cherubim, one wheel next to each cherub. The appearance of the wheels was like the gleaming color of a beryl stone.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020644"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for their appearance, the four of them looked alike, resembling a wheel within a wheel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020645"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As they moved, they went straight forward in any of the four directions without turning aside. They went wherever the front was facing, following its lead without veering to the right or left as they advanced.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020646"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Their entire bodies, their backs, their hands, and their wings, as well as the wheels, were completely covered with eyes all around—even the wheels belonging to the four of them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020647"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As for the wheels, I heard a voice calling out to them, saying, "O wheel!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020648"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each of them had four faces: the first face was that of a cherub, the second was the face of a human, the third was the face of a lion, and the fourth was the face of an eagle.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020649"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cherubim were raised up. This is the living being that I had seen by the Kebar River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020650"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the cherubim moved, the wheels moved alongside them. And when the cherubim raised their wings to ascend from the ground, the wheels did not turn away from their position beside them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020651"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the living creatures moved, the wheels moved with them; and when the creatures rose up, the wheels rose as well, for the spirit of the living beings was within the wheels.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020652"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the glory of the LORD moved away from the entrance of the temple and positioned itself above the cherubim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020653"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The cherubim raised their wings and ascended from the ground before my eyes. As they departed, the wheels moved alongside them. They came to a halt at the entrance of the east gate of the LORD’s temple, and the glory of the God of Israel rested above them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020654"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the living being I saw beneath the God of Israel by the Kebar River, and I recognized that they were cherubim.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020655"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each of them had four faces and four wings. Beneath their wings, there was something resembling human hands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100020656"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The appearance of their faces was the same as the faces I had seen by the river Kebar—their forms and their features were identical. Each one moved straight forward.</span></p>






</body></html>