<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Acts Chapter 25</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szgo0n.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:e77e92c9-ef34-369a-90d4-a2049b92eab7" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Acts Chapter 25</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027798"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Festus arrived in the province, three days later he went up from Caesarea to Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027799"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the high priest and the Jewish leaders brought their accusations against Paul before him and pleaded with him,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027800"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They sought to gain favor against him by requesting that he be summoned to Jerusalem, while secretly planning to ambush and kill him along the way.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027801"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Festus responded that Paul should remain in custody at Caesarea and that he himself would soon be traveling there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027802"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, he said, let those among you who are capable come down with me and bring charges against this man, if there is any wrongdoing in him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027803"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After staying with them for more than ten days, he went down to Caesarea. The following day, he took his seat on the judgment bench and ordered that Paul be brought before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027804"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he arrived, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem gathered around and brought many serious charges against Paul, which they were unable to substantiate.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027805"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">As he defended himself, he said, "I have not committed any offense against the Jewish law, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar in any way."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027806"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Festus, wanting to gain favor with the Jews, responded to Paul and said, "Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem and stand trial there before me concerning these charges?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027807"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Paul said, "I am standing before Caesar's tribunal, where I ought to be judged. I have done no wrong to the Jews, as you yourself know very well."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027808"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If I have committed any offense or done something deserving of death, I do not refuse to die. But if the charges these men bring against me are untrue, no one has the right to hand me over to them. I appeal to Caesar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027809"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Festus, after consulting with his advisors, replied, "Have you appealed to Caesar? To Caesar you shall go."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027810"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After some time had passed, King Agrippa and Bernice arrived in Caesarea to greet Festus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027811"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After they had stayed there for many days, Festus presented Paul's case to the king, saying, "There is a man who was left in prison by Felix."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027812"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Concerning this man, when I was in Jerusalem, the chief priests and the Jewish elders brought charges against him, seeking a judgment of condemnation.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027813"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To this I replied, "It is not the custom of the Romans to hand over anyone to be put to death before the accused has faced his accusers in person and has been given the opportunity to defend himself against the charges brought against him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027814"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, when they arrived here, without any delay the next day I took my seat in the court and ordered the man to be brought before me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027815"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the accusers stood up to present their case, they did not bring any charges of the kind I had expected.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027816"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, they had some specific accusations against him concerning their own religious practices and about a certain Jesus, who had died, but whom Paul claimed was alive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027817"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And because I was uncertain about such matters, I asked him if he would be willing to go to Jerusalem and there stand trial concerning these charges.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027818"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when Paul appealed to have his case heard by the emperor, I ordered that he be held in custody until I could send him to Caesar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027819"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Agrippa said to Festus, "I would like to hear this man myself." Festus replied, "Tomorrow you will have the opportunity to hear him."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027820"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, when Agrippa and Bernice arrived with great ceremony and entered the hearing hall, accompanied by the military commanders and the prominent men of the city, Paul was brought before them at the command of Festus.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027821"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Festus said, "King Agrippa, and all of you who are here with us, you see this man about whom the entire Jewish community has petitioned me, both in Jerusalem and here, loudly insisting that he should no longer live."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027822"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, when I discovered that he had done nothing deserving of death, and since he himself has appealed to the emperor, I have decided to send him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027823"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I have no definite charge to present to my lord concerning this man. Therefore, I have brought him before all of you, and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that after an investigation, I may have something concrete to report.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100027824"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It seems to me unreasonable to send a prisoner without also specifying the charges brought against him.</span></p>






</body></html>