<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Samuel Chapter 28</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szil7v.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:61fb3855-699e-c45b-8e22-142601285734" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Samuel Chapter 28</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007944"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During that time, the Philistines assembled their armies for war, preparing to fight against Israel. Achish said to David, "You can be certain that you and your men will go out with me into battle."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007945"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">David said to Achish, "You will surely see what your servant is capable of doing." Achish replied to David, "Because of this, I will appoint you as the permanent guardian of my life."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007946"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel had died, and all Israel mourned for him and buried him in Ramah, his hometown. Meanwhile, Saul had expelled from the land all who practiced spiritism and consulted with mediums.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007947"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Philistines assembled their forces and advanced to set up camp at Shunem. In response, Saul gathered all the men of Israel, and they encamped at Gilboa.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007948"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Saul saw the Philistine army, he was filled with fear, and his heart trembled intensely.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007949"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Saul sought guidance from the LORD, the LORD did not respond to him, whether through dreams, the Urim, or the prophets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007950"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Saul said to his servants, "Find me a woman who is a medium, so that I may go to her and consult her." His servants replied, "There is a woman in En-dor who practices as a medium."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007951"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul disguised himself by changing his clothes and went with two men to visit the woman at night. He said to her, "Please use your spirit of divination to consult the dead for me and bring up the one I will name to you."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007952"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman replied to him, "You are well aware of what Saul has done—how he has eliminated those who consult spirits and the mediums from the land. Why then are you setting a trap for my life, to bring about my death?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007953"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Saul solemnly promised her by the LORD, saying, "As surely as the LORD lives, no harm will come to you for this."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007954"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the woman asked, "Whom shall I summon for you?" And he replied, "Summon Samuel for me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007955"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out in a loud voice. Then she said to Saul, "Why have you deceived me? You are Saul!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007956"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The king said to her, "Do not be afraid. What did you see?" The woman replied to Saul, "I saw divine beings rising up from the earth."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007957"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He asked her, "What does he look like?" She replied, "An old man is coming up, and he is wrapped in a robe." Then Saul realized it was Samuel, and he bowed down with his face to the ground in reverence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007958"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Samuel said to Saul, "Why have you disturbed me and brought me up?" Saul replied, "I am in great distress, for the Philistines are waging war against me, and God has turned away from me. He no longer answers me, whether through prophets or by dreams. That is why I have called for you, so that you may tell me what I should do."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007959"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Samuel said, "Why do you consult me, since the LORD has turned away from you and has become your adversary?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007960"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD has done to him exactly as He said through me: for the LORD has torn the kingdom out of your hand and given it to your neighbor, David.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007961"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because you did not obey the voice of the LORD and failed to carry out His fierce judgment against Amalek, the LORD has brought this upon you today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007962"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, the LORD will hand over Israel, along with you, to the power of the Philistines. By tomorrow, you and your sons will join me in death. The LORD will also deliver the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007963"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Immediately, Saul collapsed to the ground, overwhelmed with fear because of Samuel’s words. He was utterly drained of strength, for he had not eaten any food all day or all night.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007964"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman approached Saul and saw that he was deeply distressed. She said to him, "Look, your servant has obeyed your command. I have risked my life and listened to the words you spoke to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007965"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, I ask you, please listen to the voice of your servant. Allow me to place a piece of bread before you; eat it so that you may have strength for the journey ahead.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007966"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he refused, saying, "I will not eat." However, his servants, along with the woman, urged him strongly, and he listened to them. So he got up from the ground and sat on the bed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007967"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The woman had a well-fed calf in her household. She quickly prepared it, slaughtering the animal, and then took flour, kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007968"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She presented it to Saul and his servants, and they ate. Afterward, they got up and left that same night.</span></p>






</body></html>