<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>I Kings Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szjwg8.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:6aa6e589-ef4b-31de-a3d3-3bd0bd4f5fb5" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">I Kings Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009285"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the word of the LORD came to Jehu, the son of Hanani, with a message against Baasha, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009286"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because I raised you up from a lowly position and appointed you as ruler over my people Israel, yet you have followed the ways of Jeroboam and caused my people Israel to sin, provoking me to anger with their wrongdoing.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009287"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully: I will remove the descendants of Baasha and his entire household, and I will make your family line like that of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009288"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone from Baasha's household who dies in the city will be devoured by dogs, and anyone who dies in the open country will be eaten by the birds of the air.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009289"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Baasha’s reign, including his accomplishments and the extent of his power, are recorded in the historical records of the kings of Israel, are they not?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009290"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Baasha died and was buried in Tirzah, joining his ancestors in death. His son Elah then became king in his place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The word of the LORD also came through the prophet Jehu, son of Hanani, against Baasha and his household. This was because of all the evil he committed in the sight of the LORD, provoking Him to anger by his actions, following the same sinful ways as the house of Jeroboam, and because he killed Jeroboam.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twenty-sixth year of Asa, king of Judah, Elah, the son of Baasha, began to reign over Israel in Tirzah, and he ruled for two years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zimri, one of his officials who commanded half of his chariot forces, plotted against him. This happened while Elah was in Tirzah, getting drunk in the house of Arza, the steward of his palace in Tirzah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Zimri entered and struck him down, killing him in the twenty-seventh year of Asa, king of Judah. He then took the throne and ruled in his place.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he began to reign, as soon as he took his seat on the throne, he executed the entire household of Baasha. He did not leave a single male survivor, whether among Baasha’s relatives or his close allies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is how Zimri completely wiped out the entire household of Baasha, fulfilling the word of the LORD that He had spoken against Baasha through the prophet Jehu.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For all the sins committed by Baasha and the sins of his son Elah—both the wrongs they themselves committed and the ways they led Israel into sin—they provoked the LORD, the God of Israel, to anger by their worthless idols and empty practices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Elah’s reign and all that he accomplished are recorded in the historical records of the kings of Israel, are they not?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the twenty-seventh year of Asa's reign as king of Judah, Zimri ruled for seven days in Tirzah. At that time, the Israelite army was camped near Gibbethon, a town controlled by the Philistines.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people who were camped heard the report: "Zimri has plotted a conspiracy and has also killed the king." As a result, all Israel proclaimed Omri, the commander of the army, as king over Israel that very day in the camp.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Omri departed from Gibbethon, accompanied by all Israel, and they laid siege to Tirzah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Zimri realized that the city had been captured, he entered the royal palace and set it on fire, causing it to burn down around him, and he perished in the flames.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is because of the sins he committed by doing what was evil in the sight of the LORD, following the ways of Jeroboam, and leading Israel into sin through his own actions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining events of Zimri’s reign, including the treason he committed, are recorded in the historical records of the kings of Israel, are they not?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the people of Israel were split into two factions: one half of the people supported Tibni, the son of Ginath, to make him king, while the other half followed Omri.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the supporters of Omri overcame the followers of Tibni, the son of Ginath. As a result, Tibni died, and Omri became king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the thirty-first year of Asa, king of Judah, Omri began to reign over Israel, and he ruled for twelve years. He reigned in Tirzah for six of those years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He purchased the hill of Samaria from Shemer for two talents of silver. He then built a city on the hill and named it Samaria, after Shemer, the former owner of the hill.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But Omri did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and acted more wickedly than all who had come before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For he followed entirely in the ways of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, and in the sins that Jeroboam committed, which led Israel into sin. By doing so, he provoked the LORD, the God of Israel, to anger through their worthless idols and empty practices.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Omri, including all his accomplishments and the power he demonstrated, are recorded in the historical records of the kings of Israel, are they not?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Omri died and was buried in Samaria, and his son Ahab succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009313"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">In the thirty-eighth year of Asa, king of Judah, Ahab, the son of Omri, began to reign over Israel. Ahab, the son of Omri, ruled over Israel in Samaria for twenty-two years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009314"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahab, the son of Omri, committed more evil in the eyes of the LORD than all who had ruled before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009315"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It happened that, as though it were a trivial matter for him to follow in the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, he also married Jezebel, the daughter of Ethbaal, king of the Sidonians. He then proceeded to serve and worship Baal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009316"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed an altar for Baal in the temple of Baal, which he had built in Samaria.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009317"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ahab established a sacred grove for idol worship, and he did more to provoke the anger of the LORD, the God of Israel, than all the kings of Israel who had ruled before him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100009318"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the reign of King Ahab, Hiel from Bethel rebuilt Jericho. As he laid its foundation, his firstborn son Abiram died, and when he set up its gates, his youngest son Segub died. This happened in fulfillment of the word of the LORD, which He had spoken through Joshua, the son of Nun.</span></p>






</body></html>