<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szlpbf.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:43a5ff95-11af-6300-c023-29924c60ec7c" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 16</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now Korah, the son of Izhar, who was the son of Kohath, who was the son of Levi, along with Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth—all of whom were descendants of Reuben—gathered a group of men.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then a group of 250 prominent leaders from the community, well-known and respected men, rose up against Moses, along with some of the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They assembled against Moses and Aaron, and confronted them, saying, "You have gone too far! The entire community is holy, every one of them, and the LORD is present among all of us. Why, then, do you exalt yourselves above the LORD's assembly?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When Moses heard this, he bowed down to the ground in reverence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Moses spoke to Korah and all his followers, saying, "Tomorrow the LORD will reveal who belongs to Him and who is holy. He will bring that person near to Himself—the one He has chosen, He will allow to come near."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do this: Take censers, Korah, and all your followers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Place fire in the censers and offer incense before the Lord tomorrow. The man whom the Lord chooses will be the one who is holy. You Levites have gone too far in assuming this role for yourselves.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004203"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And Moses said to Korah, "Listen, I urge you, you sons of Levi:"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004204"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do you consider it a trivial matter that the God of Israel has set you apart from the rest of the community of Israel, drawing you near to Himself to perform the work of the LORD’s tabernacle and to stand before the people to serve them?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004205"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has brought you close to Himself, along with all your fellow Levites, the descendants of Levi. Yet now you also seek the priesthood?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004206"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, both you and all your group have united against the LORD. And who is Aaron, that you should complain against him?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004207"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses sent a message summoning Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, but they replied, "We will not come."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004208"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do you consider it a trivial matter that you have brought us out of a land abundant with milk and honey, only to let us die in this wilderness? Must you also appoint yourself as our ruler?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004209"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Furthermore, you have not brought us into a land abundant with milk and honey, nor have you granted us possession of fields and vineyards. Are you trying to deceive us? We will not go up.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004210"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses became extremely angry and said to the LORD, "Do not accept their offering. I have not taken a single donkey from them, nor have I harmed even one of them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004211"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to Korah, "You and all your followers are to present yourselves before the LORD tomorrow—you, they, and Aaron."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004212"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each of you must take your censer, place incense in it, and bring it before the LORD—all 250 of you, along with Aaron, each holding your own censer.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004213"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Each man took his censer, placed fire in it, and added incense to it. Then they stood at the entrance of the tent of meeting, alongside Moses and Aaron.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004214"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Korah assembled the entire community against them at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and the glory of the LORD appeared to the whole assembly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004215"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004216"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Set yourselves apart from this assembly, so that I may destroy them in an instant.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004217"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They bowed down to the ground and said, "O God, the God who gives life to all living beings, if one person sins, will you be angry with the entire community?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004218"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004219"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to the assembly and say, "Move away from the tents of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004220"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses stood up and went to Dathan and Abiram, accompanied by the elders of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004221"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he addressed the assembly, saying, "Please, move away from the tents of these wicked men, and do not touch anything that belongs to them, or you may be swept away in the punishment for all their sins."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004222"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So they moved away from the area around the tents of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram on all sides. Then Dathan and Abiram came out and stood at the entrance of their tents, along with their wives, their sons, and their young children.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004223"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said, "This is how you will know that the LORD has sent me to carry out all these works—it is not by my own will or initiative that I have done them."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004224"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If these men die as all people naturally die, or if they experience the same fate as everyone else, then the Lord has not sent me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004225"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if the LORD does something unprecedented—if the ground opens its mouth and swallows them up, along with everything that belongs to them, and they go down alive into the grave—then you will know that these men have defied the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004226"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After he had finished speaking all these words, the ground beneath them split apart.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004227"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The ground split open and swallowed them up, along with their households, all of Korah’s followers, and all their possessions.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004228"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They, along with everything connected to them, descended alive into the grave, and the earth closed over them. They were utterly destroyed, vanishing from the midst of the assembly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004229"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">All the Israelites who were nearby fled when they heard their cries, for they said, "We must escape, or the earth will swallow us too!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004230"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then fire came forth from the LORD and consumed the 250 men who were offering incense.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004231"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004232"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, to gather the censers from the midst of the fire, and then scatter the burning coals far away, for these censers have been made holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004233"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The censers used by these sinners, who brought harm upon themselves, must be hammered into broad plates to cover the altar. Because these censers were presented before the LORD, they are now sacred. They will serve as a reminder to the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004234"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Eleazar the priest took the bronze censers that those who had been consumed by fire had used to offer sacrifices. These censers were then hammered into broad sheets to serve as a covering for the altar.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004235"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This shall serve as a lasting reminder to the people of Israel, so that no outsider—anyone who is not a descendant of Aaron—may approach to burn incense before the LORD. Such a person must not become like Korah and his followers, just as the LORD warned him through Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004236"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The next day, the entire community of the Israelites complained against Moses and Aaron, saying, "You have caused the death of the LORD's people!"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004237"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the community gathered together to oppose Moses and Aaron, they turned their gaze toward the tent of meeting. Suddenly, the cloud covered it, and the glorious presence of the LORD became visible.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004238"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses and Aaron approached the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004239"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004240"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">"Move away from this assembly, so that I may destroy them in an instant." Then they threw themselves face down on the ground.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004241"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moses said to Aaron, "Take a censer, place fire from the altar in it, and add incense. Then go quickly to the assembly and make atonement for them, because the LORD’s anger has been unleashed—the plague has already begun."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004242"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron did as Moses had instructed him. He hurried into the midst of the assembly, and there he saw that the plague had already begun to spread among the people. He quickly took the incense and offered it, making atonement for the people to stop the plague.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004243"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he positioned himself between the dead and the living, and the plague was halted.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004244"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The number of those who died in the plague was fourteen thousand seven hundred, in addition to those who had died because of the incident involving Korah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004245"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">50 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Aaron went back to Moses at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and the plague was halted.</span></p>






</body></html>