<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Numbers Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szlzyw.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:d6b2e1eb-f4d4-3f38-6352-f6e6ca2f1a61" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Numbers Chapter 19</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004291"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004292"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation of the law that the LORD has commanded, saying: Speak to the Israelites and instruct them to bring you a red heifer that is without defect, free from any blemish, and one that has never borne a yoke.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004293"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall give the red heifer to Eleazar the priest, and he shall take it outside the camp, where it will be slaughtered in his presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004294"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Eleazar the priest shall take some of the blood with his finger and sprinkle it seven times directly in front of the tent of meeting.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004295"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And they shall burn the heifer before his eyes; its hide, its flesh, its blood, and its dung shall all be burned together.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004296"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priest shall take a piece of cedar wood, some hyssop, and scarlet material, and throw them into the fire where the heifer is being burned.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004297"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then the priest must wash his garments and bathe his body in water. Afterward, he may return to the camp, but he will remain ceremonially unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004298"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person who burns her must wash his clothes in water and bathe his body in water, and he will remain ritually unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004299"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A person who is ritually clean must gather the ashes of the heifer and store them in a clean place outside the camp. These ashes are to be kept for the community of the Israelites to be used in the water of purification; it is a means of cleansing for sin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004300"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The one who gathers the ashes of the heifer must wash his clothes and will remain ceremonially unclean until evening. This regulation shall apply to the people of Israel and to the foreigner residing among them as a permanent statute.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004301"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who touches the body of a deceased person will be ritually unclean for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004302"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the third day, he must use it to purify himself, and by the seventh day, he will be clean. However, if he does not purify himself on the third day, then he will not be clean by the seventh day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004303"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who touches the dead body of a person and does not purify themselves defiles the dwelling place of the LORD. That person shall be cut off from Israel. Because the water of purification was not sprinkled on them, they remain unclean; their impurity is still upon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004304"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the regulation concerning someone who dies in a tent: anyone who enters the tent, as well as everything inside the tent, will be ceremonially unclean for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004305"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And any open container that does not have a lid securely fastened on it is unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004306"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anyone who touches someone killed by a sword in the open field, or a dead body, or a human bone, or a grave, will be ceremonially unclean for seven days.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004307"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For someone who is ceremonially unclean, they must take some of the ashes from the burnt heifer used for purification from sin, and mix them with fresh, flowing water in a container.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004308"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A person who is ceremonially clean shall take a branch of hyssop, dip it into the water, and sprinkle it on the tent, on all the containers, on the people who were present, and on anyone who has touched a human bone, a slain person, a dead body, or a grave.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004309"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person who is ceremonially clean shall sprinkle water on the unclean person on the third day and on the seventh day. On the seventh day, the unclean person must purify themselves, wash their clothes, and bathe in water. By evening, they will be clean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004310"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if a person is unclean and does not purify themselves, that individual shall be excluded from the community, for they have defiled the sanctuary of the LORD. The water of purification has not been sprinkled on them; they remain unclean.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004311"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This shall be a lasting regulation for them: whoever sprinkles the water of purification must wash their clothes, and anyone who touches the water of purification will remain unclean until evening.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100004312"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Anything that an unclean person touches will become unclean, and anyone who touches it will remain unclean until evening.</span></p>






</body></html>