<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ezra Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szmvxy.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:aef00995-5b18-fcfa-1fe3-317cd9b855c8" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ezra Chapter 7</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012175"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After these events, during the reign of Artaxerxes, king of Persia, Ezra—the son of Seraiah, grandson of Azariah, and great-grandson of Hilkiah—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012176"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012177"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012178"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The son of Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012179"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, who was the high priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012180"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This Ezra came up from Babylon, and he was a skilled scribe in the law of Moses, which the LORD, the God of Israel, had given. The king granted him everything he requested, because the hand of the LORD his God was upon him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012181"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A group of Israelites, including priests, Levites, singers, gatekeepers, and temple servants, went up to Jerusalem in the seventh year of King Artaxerxes' reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012182"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He arrived in Jerusalem during the fifth month, in the seventh year of the king's reign.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012183"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the first day of the first month, he set out from Babylon, and on the first day of the fifth month, he arrived in Jerusalem, guided and sustained by the gracious hand of his God upon him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012184"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For Ezra had devoted himself wholeheartedly to studying the law of the LORD, to living by it, and to teaching its statutes and ordinances in Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012185"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the text of the letter that King Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, who was skilled in the words of the LORD's commandments and His statutes for Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012186"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Artaxerxes, the supreme ruler of kings, to Ezra the priest, a scholar of the law of the God of heaven: May you experience complete peace, and may this message find you well at this time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012187"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I hereby issue a decree that all those among the people of Israel, including their priests and Levites, within my kingdom, who are willing of their own accord to go up to Jerusalem, may accompany you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012188"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Since you have been sent by the king and his seven advisors to investigate matters concerning Judah and Jerusalem, in accordance with the law of your God that you hold in your hand,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012189"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And to transport the silver and gold that the king and his advisors have willingly given to the God of Israel, whose dwelling place is in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012190"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Take all the silver and gold that you can gather throughout the province of Babylon, along with the voluntary contributions of the people and the priests, who are willingly offering gifts for the house of their God in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012191"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that you may quickly purchase with this money bulls, rams, and lambs, along with their grain offerings and drink offerings, and present them on the altar of the house of your God in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012192"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And whatever you and your fellow leaders determine is best to do with the remaining silver and gold, carry it out in accordance with the will of your God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012193"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The utensils that have been entrusted to you for the service of the house of your God, you must present before the God of Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012194"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And whatever else may be required for the house of your God, which you find necessary to provide, you shall supply it from the royal treasury.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012195"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, King Artaxerxes, hereby issue this decree to all the treasurers in the region beyond the Euphrates River: Whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, requests from you, it must be carried out promptly and without delay.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012196"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The amount provided was one hundred talents of silver, one hundred measures of wheat, one hundred baths of wine, one hundred baths of oil, and salt without any specified limit.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012197"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whatever the God of heaven has commanded must be carried out diligently for the house of the God of heaven. Otherwise, why should there be anger directed against the kingdom of the king and his descendants?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012198"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">We hereby inform you that it is not permissible to impose any tax, tribute, or duty on any of the priests, Levites, singers, gatekeepers, temple servants, or other ministers of this house of God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012199"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And you, Ezra, according to the wisdom of your God, which is in your possession, appoint magistrates and judges who can administer justice to all the people living beyond the Euphrates River—those who know the laws of your God. Instruct those who are unfamiliar with these laws, so they may also learn them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012200"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And whoever refuses to obey the law of your God and the law of the king, let judgment be carried out swiftly against them, whether it results in death, exile, confiscation of property, or imprisonment.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012201"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Praise be to the LORD, the God of our ancestors, who has placed such a purpose in the king’s heart—to bring honor and splendor to the house of the LORD in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100012202"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He has shown kindness to me in the presence of the king, his advisors, and all the king’s powerful officials. I was strengthened because the hand of the LORD my God was upon me, and I gathered leading men from Israel to accompany me.</span></p>






</body></html>