<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Joshua Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szoj7z.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:f0d91cc7-4e26-361b-7f9f-225bc8cbe59d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Joshua Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After all the people had completely crossed over the Jordan, the LORD spoke to Joshua, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Choose twelve men from among the people, one man from each tribe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Give them this command: "Take twelve stones from the middle of the Jordan, from the place where the priests' feet stood firmly. Carry them with you and set them down at the place where you will stay tonight."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Joshua summoned the twelve men he had chosen from the Israelites, one man from each tribe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua instructed them, saying, "Go ahead of the ark of the LORD your God into the middle of the Jordan River. Each of you is to take a stone on your shoulder, one for each of the tribes of the Israelites."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let this serve as a sign among you, so that when your children ask their fathers in the future, saying, "What is the meaning of these stones?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall respond to them by saying, "The waters of the Jordan were stopped before the ark of the covenant of the LORD. When the ark crossed the Jordan, the waters of the river were cut off." These stones will serve as a lasting memorial for the people of Israel forever.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The Israelites did exactly as Joshua had instructed. They took twelve stones from the middle of the Jordan River, just as the LORD had told Joshua, corresponding to the number of the tribes of Israel. They carried these stones with them to the place where they camped and set them down there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua set up twelve stones in the middle of the Jordan River, at the exact spot where the priests who carried the ark of the covenant had stood. Those stones remain there to this very day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The priests who carried the ark remained standing in the middle of the Jordan River until everything was completed that the LORD had commanded Joshua to tell the people, in accordance with all that Moses had instructed Joshua. The people hurried across the river.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When all the people had completely crossed over, the ark of the LORD and the priests also crossed over, remaining in the presence of the people.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The descendants of Reuben, the descendants of Gad, and half the tribe of Manasseh crossed over the Jordan, fully armed, ahead of the rest of the Israelites, just as Moses had instructed them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Approximately forty thousand men, equipped and ready for battle, crossed over before the LORD to engage in war, advancing toward the plains of Jericho.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On that day, the LORD exalted Joshua in the eyes of all Israel, and they held him in awe, just as they had revered Moses throughout his lifetime.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Joshua, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Instruct the priests who are carrying the ark of the covenant to come up out of the Jordan River.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua then commanded the priests, saying, "Come up out of the Jordan."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the priests who were carrying the ark of the covenant of the LORD came up out of the Jordan, and the soles of their feet touched the dry ground, the waters of the Jordan returned to their place and overflowed all its banks, just as they had done before.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The people crossed over the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month and set up camp at Gilgal, on the eastern edge of Jericho.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Joshua set up the twelve stones that they had taken from the Jordan River at Gilgal.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he spoke to the Israelites, saying, "In the future, when your children ask their fathers, 'What is the meaning of these stones?'"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then you shall teach your children, saying, "Israel crossed this Jordan on dry ground."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD your God caused the waters of the Jordan to dry up before you until you had crossed over, just as the LORD your God did to the Red Sea, which He dried up before us until we had passed through.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005935"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So that all the people of the earth may recognize the power of the LORD, that it is great and mighty, and so that you may always stand in awe of the LORD your God.</span></p>






</body></html>