<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>II Chronicles Chapter 33</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szur6v.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:4c314276-1e16-6e82-79db-bf7c1e659364" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">II Chronicles Chapter 33</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011910"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he ruled for fifty-five years in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011911"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But they did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, following the detestable practices of the nations whom the LORD had driven out before the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011912"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He rebuilt the high places that his father Hezekiah had destroyed, and he set up altars for the Baals. He also made sacred poles for Asherah worship and bowed down to all the stars of heaven, serving them as gods.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011913"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He also constructed altars within the house of the LORD, even though the LORD had declared, "In Jerusalem my name shall remain forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011914"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He constructed altars dedicated to all the heavenly bodies in both courtyards of the house of the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011915"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He made his children pass through the fire in the Valley of the Son of Hinnom. He also practiced divination, sought omens, engaged in sorcery, consulted mediums, and relied on spiritists. He committed many evil deeds in the sight of the LORD, provoking Him to anger.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011916"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He placed a carved image, an idol that he had made, in the house of God, the very place where God had said to David and to Solomon his son, "In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen above all the tribes of Israel, I will establish my name forever."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011917"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will no longer remove the people of Israel from the land that I have designated for your ancestors, provided that they are careful to do everything I have commanded them, following the entire law, statutes, and ordinances given through Moses.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011918"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Manasseh led Judah and the people of Jerusalem astray, causing them to commit even greater evil than the nations whom the LORD had destroyed before the Israelites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011919"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Manasseh and his people, but they refused to listen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011920"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, the LORD sent against them the commanders of the army of the king of Assyria, who captured Manasseh with hooks, bound him with chains, and took him away to Babylon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011921"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When he faced hardship, he earnestly prayed to the LORD his God and deeply humbled himself before the God of his ancestors.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011922"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And he prayed to Him, and the Lord responded to his plea, listened to his prayer, and restored him to Jerusalem, to his kingdom. Then Manasseh understood that the Lord alone is God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011923"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">After this, he constructed a wall outside the City of David, on the western side of the Gihon Spring, in the valley, extending as far as the entrance of the Fish Gate. He also fortified the area around Ophel, raising it to a very great height. Additionally, he stationed military commanders in all the fortified cities of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011924"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He removed the foreign gods and the idol from the house of the LORD, along with all the altars he had built on the mount of the house of the LORD and in Jerusalem, and he threw them outside the city.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011925"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He restored the altar of the LORD and offered peace offerings and thank offerings upon it. Then he instructed the people of Judah to worship and serve the LORD, the God of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011926"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Nevertheless, the people continued to offer sacrifices at the high places, but they did so exclusively to the LORD their God.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011927"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The remaining deeds of Manasseh, including his prayer to his God, and the messages of the seers who spoke to him in the name of the LORD, the God of Israel, are indeed recorded in the chronicles of the kings of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011928"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His prayer, how God responded to his plea, and all his sins and acts of unfaithfulness, including the locations where he built high places, erected Asherah poles, and set up carved idols—before he humbled himself—are recorded in the writings of the seers.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011929"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Manasseh died and was buried in his own palace. His son Amon succeeded him as king.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011930"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amon was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he ruled for two years in Jerusalem.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011931"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But he did what was evil in the eyes of the LORD, just as his father Manasseh had done. Amon offered sacrifices to all the carved idols that his father Manasseh had made, and he worshiped them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011932"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Amon did not humble himself before the LORD, as his father Manasseh had done. Instead, Amon continued to sin more and more.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011933"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">His officials plotted against him and killed him in his own house.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100011934"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, the citizens of the land executed all those who had plotted against King Amon. Then the people of the land appointed his son Josiah as king in his place.</span></p>






</body></html>