<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Deuteronomy Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szwi89.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:c3cd25c1-ee08-e1ed-5fdb-7ab2d678781d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Deuteronomy Chapter 4</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005006"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Now then, listen carefully, O Israel, to the statutes and ordinances that I am teaching you to follow, so that you may live and enter into and take possession of the land that the LORD, the God of your ancestors, is giving to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005007"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not add anything to the words I am commanding you, nor should you take anything away from them, so that you may faithfully observe the commands of the LORD your God that I am giving to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005008"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Your own eyes have witnessed what the LORD did concerning Baal-peor: every man who followed Baal-peor, the LORD your God has destroyed from your midst.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005009"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But all of you who remained faithful to the LORD your God are still alive today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005010"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen carefully, I have instructed you in the laws and decrees, just as the LORD my God commanded me, so that you may follow them in the land you are about to enter and take possession of.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005011"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, carefully observe and follow these commands, for this will demonstrate your wisdom and understanding in the eyes of the nations. When they hear about all these statutes, they will say, "Surely this great nation is a wise and discerning people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005012"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What other nation is so great as to have their God so near to them in every way, as the LORD our God is whenever we call on him?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005013"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">What other nation is so great as to have laws and decrees as righteous as this entire body of instruction that I am presenting to you today?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005014"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be very careful and guard your life diligently, so that you do not forget the things your eyes have seen, and so that they do not slip from your heart all the days of your life. Instead, teach them to your children and to your grandchildren.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005015"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Especially the day when you stood before the LORD your God at Horeb, when the LORD said to me, "Assemble the people before me, and I will let them hear my words, so that they may learn to revere me all the days they live on the earth, and so that they may teach their children."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005016"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You approached and stood at the base of the mountain, which was ablaze with fire reaching up to the very heart of the sky. It was shrouded in deep darkness, with dense clouds and thick gloom.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005017"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to you from the midst of the fire. You heard the sound of His words, but you saw no form or image—only a voice was heard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005018"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He made known to you His covenant, which He instructed you to follow—the Ten Commandments—and He inscribed them on two stone tablets.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005019"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">At that time, the LORD instructed me to teach you the laws and ordinances, so that you would observe them in the land you are about to enter and take possession of.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005020"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, be very careful and watchful over yourselves, for you did not see any form or likeness on the day the LORD spoke to you at Horeb from the midst of the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005021"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful not to corrupt yourselves by making a carved image or any kind of idol, whether it resembles a human figure—male or female—or any other form.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005022"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The image of any animal that lives on the earth, or the image of any bird that flies in the sky.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005023"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The image of any creature that moves on the ground, or the image of any fish that lives in the waters below the earth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005024"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful not to look up to the heavens and, upon seeing the sun, the moon, and the stars—all the array of the sky—be tempted to bow down and worship them or serve them. These are things the LORD your God has allotted to all the peoples under the entire heavens.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005025"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But the LORD has taken you and brought you out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to make you his own treasured people, as you are today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005026"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Moreover, the LORD was angry with me because of you, and He solemnly declared that I would not cross the Jordan, nor would I enter the good land that the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005027"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, I must die in this land and will not cross the Jordan. But you will cross over and take possession of that good land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005028"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Be careful and watch over yourselves, so that you do not forget the covenant of the LORD your God, which He established with you, and so that you do not create for yourselves a carved image or any likeness of anything that the LORD your God has forbidden you to make.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005029"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the LORD your God is a consuming fire, a God who is deeply passionate and protective of His covenant with you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005030"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you have children and grandchildren, and after you have lived in the land for a long time, if you then become corrupt and make a carved image or any likeness of anything, and if you do what is evil in the sight of the LORD your God, provoking Him to anger—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005031"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Today, I call upon heaven and earth to testify against you: you will soon completely perish from the land you are about to cross the Jordan to possess. You will not live long in it, but will be utterly destroyed.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005032"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will disperse you among the nations, and you will become few in number among the peoples where the LORD will bring you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005033"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">There you will worship gods made by human hands—idols of wood and stone—which cannot see, hear, eat, or smell.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005034"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">But if from that place you seek the LORD your God, you will find Him, provided you search for Him with all your heart and with all your being.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005035"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you are in distress, and all these things have happened to you, even in the days to come, if you return to the LORD your God and obey his voice,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005036"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For the Lord your God is a compassionate God; He will not abandon you, nor bring you to ruin, nor forget the covenant He made with your ancestors, which He solemnly swore to uphold.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005037"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Consider now the days of old, those that came before you, from the time God created humanity on the earth. Search from one end of the heavens to the other—has anything as extraordinary as this ever happened, or has anything like it ever been heard of?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005038"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Has any other nation ever heard the voice of God speaking from the midst of fire, as you have heard, and still survived?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005039"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">34 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Has any god ever attempted to go and take a nation for himself from within another nation, using trials, signs, wonders, warfare, a mighty hand, an outstretched arm, and great acts of terror, as the LORD your God did for you in Egypt before your very eyes?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005040"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">35 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">It was revealed to you so that you might understand that the LORD alone is God; there is no other besides Him.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005041"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">36 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From heaven, He caused you to hear His voice, so that He might teach you. On earth, He revealed His great fire to you, and you heard His words speaking from the midst of the fire.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005042"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">37 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Because He loved your ancestors, He chose their descendants after them and brought you out of Egypt with His mighty power, leading you personally by His presence.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005043"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">38 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To drive out nations before you that are greater and more powerful than you, in order to bring you into their land and give it to you as your inheritance, as it is today.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005044"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">39 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Understand this today, and take it to heart: the LORD is God in heaven above and on the earth below—there is no other.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005045"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">40 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must carefully observe His statutes and His commandments, which I am giving you today, so that it may go well for you and for your children after you, and so that you may live long in the land that the LORD your God is giving you for all time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005046"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">41 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Moses set apart three cities on the eastern side of the Jordan, facing the sunrise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005047"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">42 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This was so that someone who unintentionally killed another person—without having harbored any prior hatred—could flee there. By escaping to one of these cities, they could remain alive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005048"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">43 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Specifically, Bezer in the wilderness, located in the plateau region, was designated for the Reubenites; Ramoth in Gilead was set apart for the Gadites; and Golan in Bashan was allotted to the Manassites.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005049"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">44 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is the instruction that Moses presented to the people of Israel.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005050"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">45 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">These are the decrees, the laws, and the rulings that Moses presented to the Israelites after they had come out of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005051"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">46 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">On the eastern side of the Jordan River, in the valley opposite Beth-peor, in the territory of Sihon, king of the Amorites, who ruled from Heshbon—this is the land that Moses and the Israelites conquered after they had come out of Egypt.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005052"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">47 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They took possession of his land, along with the land of Og, king of Bashan—two kings of the Amorites who ruled east of the Jordan, toward the sunrise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005053"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">48 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">From Aroer, which lies along the banks of the Arnon River, all the way to Mount Sion, also known as Hermon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100005054"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">49 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And all the flatland on the eastern side of the Jordan, stretching as far as the Sea of the Arabah, below the slopes of Pisgah.</span></p>






</body></html>