<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Isaiah Chapter 42</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szy16r.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:a392327f-74be-16e9-d6e7-e7633425a54d" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Isaiah Chapter 42</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018482"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Here is my servant, whom I support; my chosen one, in whom I take great delight. I have placed my Spirit upon him, and he will bring justice to the nations. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018483"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will not shout or raise his voice, nor will he make his voice heard in the public square.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018484"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">A crushed reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not extinguish. He will bring forth justice in accordance with truth.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018485"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">He will not grow weak or lose heart until he establishes justice throughout the earth; even the distant islands will eagerly await his instruction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018486"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is what God, the LORD, says—the one who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and all that grows from it, who gives breath to the people living on it and spirit to those who walk upon it:</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018487"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I, the LORD, have summoned you in righteousness; I will take hold of your hand and watch over you. I will appoint you as a covenant for the people, a light to the nations. </span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018488"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">To give sight to those who cannot see, to free those held captive, and to bring out those who dwell in darkness from their place of confinement.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018489"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am the LORD—that is my name. I will not give my glory to anyone else, nor will I share my praise with carved idols.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018490"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Look, the events of the past have already taken place, and now I am announcing new things. Before they even begin to unfold, I am making them known to you.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018491"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Sing to the LORD a new song, and proclaim his praise from the farthest reaches of the earth—you who sail the seas and all that dwell within them, you islands and all who inhabit them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018492"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let the wilderness and its towns raise their voices, along with the villages where Kedar dwells. Let those who live among the rocks sing for joy; let them shout aloud from the mountaintops.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018493"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Let them honor the LORD and proclaim his greatness among the nations and distant lands.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018494"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD will go out like a mighty warrior; He will rouse His zeal like a soldier in battle. He will shout, yes, roar aloud; He will triumph over His enemies.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018495"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">For a long time, I have remained silent; I have kept still and restrained myself. But now, like a woman in labor, I will cry out; I will gasp and pant all at once. I will bring forth destruction and consume everything in my path.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018496"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will lay waste to mountains and hills, causing all their vegetation to wither; I will turn rivers into dry land and dry up all the pools of water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018497"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I will guide the blind along a path they do not know; I will lead them on unfamiliar roads. I will turn darkness into light before them and make the rough places smooth. These are the things I will do for them, and I will not abandon them.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018498"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They will be utterly disgraced and overwhelmed with shame—those who place their trust in carved idols, who declare to cast images, "You are our gods."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018499"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Listen, you who cannot hear; and look, you who cannot see, so that you may truly perceive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018500"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who is as blind as my servant, or as deaf as the messenger I have sent? Who is as blind as the one who is called faithful, or as blind as the servant of the LORD?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018501"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You see many things, but you do not pay attention; your ears are open, but you do not listen.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018502"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD is delighted for the sake of his righteousness; he will exalt his law and make it glorious.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018503"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">This is a people plundered and looted; they are all trapped in pits and hidden away in prisons. They have become prey, with no one to rescue them; they have been taken as spoil, and no one says, "Give them back."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018504"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who among you will listen to this? Who will pay attention and understand what is to come?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018505"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Who handed Jacob over to be plundered and Israel to the marauders? Was it not the LORD, against whom we have sinned? For they refused to follow His ways and were unwilling to obey His law.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100018506"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, He has poured out upon him the full force of His wrath and the intensity of battle. It has engulfed him in flames on every side, yet he remains unaware; it has consumed him, yet he does not take it to heart.</span></p>






</body></html>