<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Leviticus Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szy3xv.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:2c8a23a7-e581-eb32-912f-335c1cfaec01" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Leviticus Chapter 22</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003371"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003372"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell Aaron and his sons that they must set themselves apart from the sacred offerings of the Israelites. They must not defile my holy name by mishandling the things that the people consecrate to me. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003373"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Tell them this: If anyone among your descendants throughout your generations approaches the holy things that the people of Israel consecrate to the LORD while in a state of uncleanness, that person will be cut off from my presence. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003374"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Any man from the lineage of Aaron who has leprosy or a bodily discharge must not eat the sacred offerings until he is ritually clean. Likewise, anyone who touches something made unclean by contact with a dead body, or a man who has had an emission of semen,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003375"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Or if anyone touches any creature that moves along the ground, which could make them unclean, or if they come into contact with a person who is unclean—whatever kind of uncleanness it may be—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003376"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The person who touches anything of this kind will be ritually unclean until evening and must not eat any of the sacred offerings unless they wash their body with water.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003377"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When the sun has set, he will be considered clean, and afterward he may partake of the sacred offerings, for they are his allotted food.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003378"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not eat any animal that has died naturally or has been killed by wild animals, as doing so would make you unclean. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003379"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, they must observe my regulations, so that they do not incur guilt and die because they have defiled them. I am the LORD, who sets them apart as holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003380"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">No outsider is permitted to eat of the sacred offering. Neither a temporary resident staying with the priest nor a hired servant may eat of the holy offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003381"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if a priest purchases someone with his own money, that person may eat from the priest's portion, as well as those born in his household. They are permitted to share in his food.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003382"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If the daughter of a priest marries someone outside the priestly family, she is no longer permitted to partake of the sacred offerings.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003383"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, if the priest’s daughter becomes a widow or is divorced, has no children, and returns to her father’s household as in her younger days, she may eat from her father’s food. But no outsider is permitted to eat from it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003384"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">If someone unintentionally eats something that is holy, they must add a fifth of its value to it and give both the holy item and the additional portion to the priest.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003385"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They must not treat as common or defile the sacred offerings that the people of Israel dedicate to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003386"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Or allow them to bear the guilt of their wrongdoing when they eat their sacred offerings, for I, the LORD, am the one who sets them apart as holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003387"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003388"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Speak to Aaron, his sons, and all the people of Israel, and tell them this: Any person from the house of Israel or any foreigner living among them who brings an offering to the Lord—whether it is for fulfilling a vow or as a voluntary gift—and presents it as a burnt offering, must do so in this manner.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003389"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You shall present a male without defect, from the cattle, the sheep, or the goats, as a voluntary offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003390"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">However, you must not offer anything that has a defect, for it will not be acceptable on your behalf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003391"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whoever presents a peace offering to the LORD to fulfill a vow or as a voluntary offering, whether from cattle or sheep, it must be without defect to be acceptable; no flaw shall be found in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003392"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not offer to the LORD any animal that is blind, injured, mutilated, has a growth, is afflicted with sores, or has skin disease. Do not present such animals as a burnt offering on the altar to the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003393"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">23 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You may offer either a bull or a lamb that has any defect or extra growth in its body as a freewill offering, but it will not be accepted as a vow offering.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003394"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">24 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not present to the LORD anything that is bruised, crushed, broken, or cut; nor shall you offer such things as a sacrifice in your land.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003395"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">25 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must not offer the bread of your God from the hand of a foreigner, nor any of these animals, because their defects are present in them; they are flawed and will not be accepted on your behalf.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003396"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">26 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003397"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">27 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When a young bull, a sheep, or a goat is born, it must remain with its mother for seven days. From the eighth day onward, it will be acceptable as an offering to be presented to the LORD as a burnt sacrifice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003398"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">28 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Whether it is a cow or a ewe, you must not slaughter it and its offspring on the same day.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003399"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">29 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When you present a thanksgiving offering to the LORD, you must offer it willingly and of your own free choice.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003400"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">30 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">You must eat it all on the same day; do not leave any of it until the next morning. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003401"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">31 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, you must observe my commandments and carry them out. I am the LORD.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003402"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">32 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Do not defile my holy name, for I must be treated as holy among the people of Israel. I am the LORD, who sets you apart as holy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100003403"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">33 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I am the LORD, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God.</span></p>






</body></html>