<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Ruth Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../css/english_master.css" />
<meta charset="utf-8" /><meta name="kotobee-chapter" content="htmlcevhn\szysdp.xhtml" />
<meta name="kotobee-book" content="urn:uuid:cc929a5a-04b5-b6d3-43a7-fc93b320ad78" />
</head>
<body>
<h3 class="index-book-title">Ruth Chapter 1</h3>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007129"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">During the time when the judges governed, a severe famine struck the land. A man from Bethlehem in Judah, along with his wife and their two sons, decided to leave and settle temporarily in the region of Moab.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007130"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">The man’s name was Elimelech, and his wife’s name was Naomi. His two sons were named Mahlon and Chilion. They were Ephrathites from Bethlehem in Judah. They traveled to the land of Moab and settled there.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007131"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Elimelech, Naomi’s husband, died, leaving her alone with her two sons.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007132"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They married women from Moab; one was named Orpah, and the other was named Ruth. They lived there for about ten years.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007133"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Mahlon and Chilion both died, and the woman was left without her two sons and her husband.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007134"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then Naomi got up, along with her daughters-in-law, to leave the land of Moab and return to her homeland. She had heard while in Moab that the LORD had shown kindness to His people by providing them with food.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007135"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Therefore, she left the place where she had been staying, accompanied by her two daughters-in-law, and they set out on the journey to return to the land of Judah.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007136"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, "Go, each of you return to your mother’s home. May the LORD show you the same kindness you have shown to the dead and to me."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007137"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">May the LORD enable each of you to find security and peace in the home of your husband. Then she kissed them, and they wept aloud, their voices rising together in sorrow.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007138"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">They replied to her, "We will certainly go back with you to your people."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007139"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Naomi said, "Go back, my daughters. Why would you come with me? Do I still have sons in my womb who could become your husbands?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007140"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Return home, my daughters; go your way, for I am too old to have a husband. Even if I were to say, "I have hope," and if I were to have a husband tonight and even bear sons—</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007141"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">13 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Would you wait for them until they are grown? Would you refrain from marrying others for their sake? No, my daughters, for I am deeply grieved on your behalf, as the hand of the LORD has turned against me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007142"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">14 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Then they raised their voices and wept once more. Orpah kissed her mother-in-law goodbye, but Ruth clung to her.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007143"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">And she said, "Look, your sister-in-law has returned to her people and to her gods. You should go back and follow your sister-in-law."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007144"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">16 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Ruth replied, "Do not urge me to leave you or to turn back from following you. Wherever you go, I will go, and wherever you stay, I will stay. Your people will be my people, and your God will be my God."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007145"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">17 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">Where you die, I will die, and there I will be buried. May the LORD punish me severely, and even more, if anything but death separates you and me.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007146"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">18 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">When she realized that Ruth was determined to go with her, she stopped trying to persuade her otherwise.</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007147"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">19 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So the two of them traveled until they reached Bethlehem. When they arrived in Bethlehem, the entire town was stirred because of them, and the people exclaimed, "Is this really Naomi?"</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007148"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">20 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">She said to them, "Do not call me Naomi; call me Mara, for the Almighty has dealt with me in great bitterness."</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007149"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">21 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">I left with abundance, but the LORD has brought me back empty. Why should you call me Naomi, when the LORD has spoken against me, and the Almighty has brought me hardship?</span></p>
<p class="MsoPlainText" lang="en"><span class="heading-2-text"><a id="ref_Toc100007150"></a></span><span class="verse-number2">22 </span><span style="font-family: 'Noto Sans', sans-serif;">So Naomi returned, accompanied by Ruth the Moabite, her daughter-in-law, who had come back with her from the land of Moab. They arrived in Bethlehem at the start of the barley harvest.</span></p>






</body></html>